# Data and databases
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 45 minutes
1h 45m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/FLAIK/data-and-databases

These readings will give you some context of the significance of data and information in the world and how databases help organise that data. You will also understand how to use databases and who uses them. Hoffer, J., R. Venkataraman and H. Topi Modern database management. (Harlow: Pearson Education Ltd., 2020). 13th global edition. Chapter 1: The database environment and development process, from ‘Data matter!’ up to ‘Traditional file processing systems,’ and ‘The range of database applications’. This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Elmasri, R. and S. Navathe Fundamentals of database systems. (Harlow: Pearson Education Ltd., 2017). 7th global edition. Chapter 1: Databases and data users, from ‘Introduction’ up to ‘Characteristics of the database approach’. This reading is in the Online Library in the VLeBooks Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Data and databases These readings will give you some context of the significance of data and information in the world and how databases help organise that data. You will also understand how to use databases and who uses them. Hoffer, J., R. Venkataraman and H. Topi Modern database management. (Harlow: Pearson Education Ltd., 2020). 13th global edition. Chapter 1: The database environment and development process, from ‘Data matter!’ up to ‘Traditional file processing systems,’ and ‘The range of database applications’. This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Elmasri, R. and S. Navathe Fundamentals of database systems. (Harlow: Pearson Education Ltd., 2017). 7th global edition. Chapter 1: Databases and data users, from ‘Introduction’ up to ‘Characteristics of the database approach’. This reading is in the Online Library in the VLeBooks Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue