# Case study – inclusive computing
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 10 minutes
1h 10m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/A108m/case-study-inclusive-computing

This reading item reiterates some of the points we saw earlier, about algorithms and technical systems being biased in their nature through careless design and development activities. We will cover some more introductory topics on the issues explaining where and how things can go wrong. Wachter-Boettcher, S. Technically wrong: Sexist apps, biased algorithms, and other threats of toxic tech. (New York: W. W. Norton & Company Inc., 2017). Chapter 1. / 13 100% ~ UNIVERSITY OF LONDON Online library: digital copies Copyright Notice Staff and students of the University of London are reminded that copyright subsists in this extract and the work from which it was taken. This Digital Copy has been made under the terms of a CLA licence which allows Course Users to: • access and download a copy; • print out a copy. This Digital Copy and any digital or printed copy supplied under the terms of this Licence are for use in connection with this Course of Study. They should not be downloaded or printed by anyone other than a student enrolled on the named course. A student enrolled on this course may retain such copies after the end of the course, but strictly for their own personal use only. All copies (including electronic copies) shall include this Copyright Notice and shall be destroyed and/or deleted if and when required by the University. Except as provided for by copyright law, no further copying, storage or distribution (including by e-mail) is permitted without the consent of the copyright holder. The author (which term includes artists and other visual creators) has moral rights in the work and neither staff nor students may cause, or permit, the distortion, mutilation or other modification of the work, or any other derogatory treatment of it, which would be prejudicial to the honour or reputation of the author. Name of Designated Person authorising scanning: Sandra Tury, Associate Director: Online Library S ervices, University of London Worldwide Course of Study: Extract title: Title author: Name of Publisher: Publication year, Volume, Issue: Page extent: Source title: ISBN/ISSN: Case study – inclusive computing This reading item reiterates some of the points we saw earlier, about algorithms and technical systems being biased in their nature through careless design and development activities. We will cover some more introductory topics on the issues explaining where and how things can go wrong. Wachter-Boettcher, S. Technically wrong: Sexist apps, biased algorithms, and other threats of toxic tech. (New York: W. W. Norton & Company Inc., 2017). Chapter 1. / 13 100% ~ UNIVERSITY OF LONDON Online library: digital copies Copyright Notice Staff and students of the University of London are reminded that copyright subsists in this extract and the work from which it was taken. This Digital Copy has been made under the terms of a CLA licence which allows Course Users to: • access and download a copy; • print out a copy. This Digital Copy and any digital or printed copy supplied under the terms of this Licence are for use in connection with this Course of Study. They should not be downloaded or printed by anyone other than a student enrolled on the named course. A student enrolled on this course may retain such copies after the end of the course, but strictly for their own personal use only. All copies (including electronic copies) shall include this Copyright Notice and shall be destroyed and/or deleted if and when required by the University. Except as provided for by copyright law, no further copying, storage or distribution (including by e-mail) is permitted without the consent of the copyright holder. The author (which term includes artists and other visual creators) has moral rights in the work and neither staff nor students may cause, or permit, the distortion, mutilation or other modification of the work, or any other derogatory treatment of it, which would be prejudicial to the honour or reputation of the author. Name of Designated Person authorising scanning: Sandra Tury, Associate Director: Online Library S ervices, University of London Worldwide Course of Study: Extract title: Title author: Name of Publisher: Publication year, Volume, Issue: Page extent: Source title: ISBN/ISSN: Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue