# Enhance your understanding of equality, diversity and inclusivity with our University of London Careers Service resources
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/P9om6/enhance-your-understanding-of-equality-diversity-and-inclusivity-with-our

Navigate through our resources on equality, diversity and inclusion at Career Connect to learn more about EDI perspectives globally from a Career Development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your EDI understanding and practice? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Sample resources include: Explore the resource ‘Disability: IN’ which provides information on disability and inclusivity worldwide. AGE platform Europe: a European association that seeks to combat ageism, publishing news and initiatives for older people. Lesbians Who Tech . An international community of over 70,000+ members that provides support to LGBTQ+ women, non-binary and trans professionals in the tech industry. Check out their newsletter for information on coding scholarships and events. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Enhance your understanding of equality, diversity and inclusivity with our University of London Careers Service resources Navigate through our resources on equality, diversity and inclusion at Career Connect to learn more about EDI perspectives globally from a Career Development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your EDI understanding and practice? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Sample resources include: Explore the resource ‘Disability: IN’ which provides information on disability and inclusivity worldwide. AGE platform Europe: a European association that seeks to combat ageism, publishing news and initiatives for older people. Lesbians Who Tech . An international community of over 70,000+ members that provides support to LGBTQ+ women, non-binary and trans professionals in the tech industry. Check out their newsletter for information on coding scholarships and events. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue