# Best practices for identifying and preventing cyber threats
Reading•
. Duration: 3 hours 30 minutes
3h 30m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/uyyf2/best-practices-for-identifying-and-preventing-cyber-threats

Building on our exploration of cyber threat intelligence (CTI) and mitigation strategies, this reading expands the focus from the collection and application of intelligence to the wider ecosystem of vulnerabilities and attacks that intelligence seeks to address. This article situates CTI within the broader landscape of cyber risk and resilience, offering a comprehensive reference point for understanding not only how organisations gather and apply intelligence, but also what kinds of threats and countermeasures that intelligence must contend with. Read: Aslan, Ö., S.S. Aktuğ, M. Ozkan-Okay, A.A. Yilmaz and E. Akin ‘ A comprehensive review of cyber security vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, and solutions’ , Electronics 12(6) 2023 p.1333. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, consider the following questions. How do the vulnerabilities and attacks described in the article connect to the different types of cyber threat intelligence from the previous lecture? In what ways can emerging technologies both strengthen defences and create new risks? Best practices for identifying and preventing cyber threats Building on our exploration of cyber threat intelligence (CTI) and mitigation strategies, this reading expands the focus from the collection and application of intelligence to the wider ecosystem of vulnerabilities and attacks that intelligence seeks to address. This article situates CTI within the broader landscape of cyber risk and resilience, offering a comprehensive reference point for understanding not only how organisations gather and apply intelligence, but also what kinds of threats and countermeasures that intelligence must contend with. Read: Aslan, Ö., S.S. Aktuğ, M. Ozkan-Okay, A.A. Yilmaz and E. Akin ‘ A comprehensive review of cyber security vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, and solutions’ , Electronics 12(6) 2023 p.1333. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, consider the following questions. How do the vulnerabilities and attacks described in the article connect to the different types of cyber threat intelligence from the previous lecture? In what ways can emerging technologies both strengthen defences and create new risks? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue