# Topic 1 summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/fbEGt/topic-1-summary

In this topic, you have explored the foundations of cyber threats – what they are, how they have evolved and why they matter. So far, you have explored: how to define cyber threats. You have learned what cyber threats are, how they have evolved over time and why they have significant impact on organisations and individuals the different types of cyber threats. You have explored common cyber attacks such as phishing, ransomware, insider threats and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks the classification of cyber threats by source, nature and impact. You have practised categorising threats using a structured framework, distinguishing between internal versus external threats, network versus endpoint vectors and financial, reputational or operational impacts. By reading case studies and recent news articles and trying out hands-on simulations and interactive quizzes, you are developing a practical understanding of today’s cyber threat landscape and supporting your critical thinking. Topic 1 summary In this topic, you have explored the foundations of cyber threats – what they are, how they have evolved and why they matter. So far, you have explored: how to define cyber threats. You have learned what cyber threats are, how they have evolved over time and why they have significant impact on organisations and individuals the different types of cyber threats. You have explored common cyber attacks such as phishing, ransomware, insider threats and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks the classification of cyber threats by source, nature and impact. You have practised categorising threats using a structured framework, distinguishing between internal versus external threats, network versus endpoint vectors and financial, reputational or operational impacts. By reading case studies and recent news articles and trying out hands-on simulations and interactive quizzes, you are developing a practical understanding of today’s cyber threat landscape and supporting your critical thinking. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue