# Real-world cryptography
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 15 minutes
1h 15m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/ILbSq/real-world-cryptography

Now that you have learned the core ideas about cryptography, this text is valuable not only for understanding how cryptography works in the real world but also for appreciating why certain cryptographic decisions matter in securing systems. Read: Aumasson, J-P. Serious cryptography: a practical introduction to modern encryption. (San Francisco, CA: No Starch Press, 2025) 2nd edition, Part 1 Fundamentals, Chapter 1 Encryption: ‘Attack Models’ up to the end of ‘Security Notions’; Chapter 2 Randomness: ‘Real-World PRNGs’ to the end of ‘Randon Bits in Linux’ and Chapter 3 Cryptographic Security: ‘Generating Keys’ up to the end of ‘Protecting Keys’. This reading is available in the Online Library in the O'Reilly Collection . As you read, focus on understanding how theory connects to application. Think critically about how cryptographic choices can either enhance or undermine system trust. Real-world cryptography Now that you have learned the core ideas about cryptography, this text is valuable not only for understanding how cryptography works in the real world but also for appreciating why certain cryptographic decisions matter in securing systems. Read: Aumasson, J-P. Serious cryptography: a practical introduction to modern encryption. (San Francisco, CA: No Starch Press, 2025) 2nd edition, Part 1 Fundamentals, Chapter 1 Encryption: ‘Attack Models’ up to the end of ‘Security Notions’; Chapter 2 Randomness: ‘Real-World PRNGs’ to the end of ‘Randon Bits in Linux’ and Chapter 3 Cryptographic Security: ‘Generating Keys’ up to the end of ‘Protecting Keys’. This reading is available in the Online Library in the O'Reilly Collection . As you read, focus on understanding how theory connects to application. Think critically about how cryptographic choices can either enhance or undermine system trust. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue