# Domino logic gates simulation
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/3GYVz/domino-logic-gates-simulation

In the next exercise you will learn more about logic gates and how they can be represented using dominoes. As you have already learnt, logic gates are defined as the basic element of electronic circuits, implementing a Boolean operation. Computers are made of billions of these tiny electrical components. Depending on the characteristics of each gate, logic gates take information coming in and output the processed information accordingly. It is extremely difficult to visualise this process in computers as the information they receive is electrical signals. The signal can be either on or off, depending on whether the voltage registered on the circuit is high or low. Luckily for us, we can break down such a complex system using dominoes. The information this time is dictated by whether a chain of dominoes is falling or not, representing high voltage and low voltage respectively. The next exercise will simulate different types of logic gates such as the OR gate, the AND gate and the XOR gate. Furthermore, there is a simulation of a 2 bit binary addition which uses a combination of the previously mentioned gates. The Domino logic gates simulation looks like this: You can simulate all four different combinations of inputs by clicking the buttons located just below the title of the current gate simulation: You can move to the next or previous logic gate simulation by clicking on the buttons located at the bottom corners: Finally you can reset the current simulation by clicking the central button located at the bottom: It is now time for you to jump to the next exercise and have fun with the Domino logic gates interactive simulation. Why not try to replicate each gate with real dominoes? Good luck! Lesson 5.2 Applications Video: Video Logic gates . Duration: 6 minutes 6 min Practice Assignment: Logic gates . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Combinational circuits . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Practice Assignment: Combinational circuits . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Simplification of circuits . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Reading: Reading Simplification of circuits . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Practice Assignment: Simplification of circuits . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Discussion Prompt: Simplification of circuits . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Peer-graded Assignment: Boolean algebra . Duration: 1 hour 1h Review Your Peers: Boolean algebra Reading: Reading Topic 5 essential reading . Duration: 2 hours 45 minutes 2h 45m Reading: Reading Domino logic gates simulation . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Ungraded Plugin: Domino logic gates simulation . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Reading: Reading Topic 5 summary . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Lesson 5.3 Extra resources Lesson 5.4 Summative assessment Lesson 5.5 Midterm assessment Domino logic gates simulation In the next exercise you will learn more about logic gates and how they can be represented using dominoes. As you have already learnt, logic gates are defined as the basic element of electronic circuits, implementing a Boolean operation. Computers are made of billions of these tiny electrical components. Depending on the characteristics of each gate, logic gates take information coming in and output the processed information accordingly. It is extremely difficult to visualise this process in computers as the information they receive is electrical signals. The signal can be either on or off, depending on whether the voltage registered on the circuit is high or low. Luckily for us, we can break down such a complex system using dominoes. The information this time is dictated by whether a chain of dominoes is falling or not, representing high voltage and low voltage respectively. The next exercise will simulate different types of logic gates such as the OR gate, the AND gate and the XOR gate. Furthermore, there is a simulation of a 2 bit binary addition which uses a combination of the previously mentioned gates. The Domino logic gates simulation looks like this: You can simulate all four different combinations of inputs by clicking the buttons located just below the title of the current gate simulation: You can move to the next or previous logic gate simulation by clicking on the buttons located at the bottom corners: Finally you can reset the current simulation by clicking the central button located at the bottom: It is now time for you to jump to the next exercise and have fun with the Domino logic gates interactive simulation. Why not try to replicate each gate with real dominoes? Good luck! Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue