# Midterm study guide
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/m54Us/midterm-study-guide

Discrete Mathematics midterm exam preparation checklist: Ensure you have mastered the skills and concepts listed below to improve your chances of success for the midterm assessment. Your study should be focused on understanding and practicing these topics in depth. 1. Set theory: - Understand and apply the concepts of sets, subsets and universal sets. - Familiarity with common set operations including union, intersection and difference. - Ability to construct and interpret Venn diagrams. - Knowledge of power sets and their properties. - Able to use the laws of set operation to prove relationship and properties of gives sets. For example, show one set is subset of another set. This can be done using either by either using Venn diagram or the laws of set theory. 2. Functions: - Understand the concept of functions, including the domain, the co-domain and the range of a function. - Understand the properties of functions such as such as bijections, injections and surjections. - Able to proof if a given function is injective, surjective or bijective. - Proficiency in figuring out inverse functions. - Familiarity with the principle of function composition and its application. 3. Logarithms: - Understand logarithmic functions and their properties. - Ability to solve logarithmic equations proficiently. 4. Propositional logic: - Familiarisation with propositional logic. - Construct and interpret truth tables. - Distinguish between contrapositive, converse and inverse of a logical statement. - Understand various logical operators and their properties. - Familiarisation with the laws propositional logic and how to use them to simplify compound propositions or proof equivalence between tow given propositions 5. Logical argument: - Ability to assess the validity of logical arguments. - Proficiency in constructing logical arguments using different reasoning methods. - Understand rule of how to use them to assess the validity of logical arguments. 6. Predicates: - Understand the concept of predicates and quantifiers. - Able to negate predicates involving quantifiers and implications. - Able to translate a quantified statement (a proposition function) into its corresponding statement in words and vis-versa. 7. Boolean algebra: - Proficiency in applying Boolean algebra operations and principles. - Familiarity with Boolean algebraic expressions. - Ability to analyse logic circuits. - Understanding of De Morgan's laws and ability to apply them effectively. - Skill to construct Karnaugh maps. - Knowledge of expressions simplification down to a minimal sum of products. Lesson 5.2 Applications Lesson 5.3 Extra resources Lesson 5.4 Summative assessment Lesson 5.5 Midterm assessment Video: Video Mid-Term preparation by Dr Lahcen Ouarbya . Duration: 1 hour 25 minutes 1h 25m Reading: Reading Midterm study guide . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Midterm Key Concepts . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: Practice midterm questions . Duration: 1 hour 1h Reading: Reading [IMPORTANT] - Mid-term Assessment [001] Question3 (e) Update . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Graded Assignment: Mid-Term Assessment [001] Submitted Reading: Reading What is Studiosity? . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Ungraded App Item: Ungraded App Item Studiosity . Duration: 1 hour 1h Reading: Reading What does the feedback cover . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Video: Video New Video . Duration: 1 minute 1 min Midterm study guide Discrete Mathematics midterm exam preparation checklist: Ensure you have mastered the skills and concepts listed below to improve your chances of success for the midterm assessment. Your study should be focused on understanding and practicing these topics in depth. 1. Set theory: - Understand and apply the concepts of sets, subsets and universal sets. - Familiarity with common set operations including union, intersection and difference. - Ability to construct and interpret Venn diagrams. - Knowledge of power sets and their properties. - Able to use the laws of set operation to prove relationship and properties of gives sets. For example, show one set is subset of another set. This can be done using either by either using Venn diagram or the laws of set theory. 2. Functions: - Understand the concept of functions, including the domain, the co-domain and the range of a function. - Understand the properties of functions such as such as bijections, injections and surjections. - Able to proof if a given function is injective, surjective or bijective. - Proficiency in figuring out inverse functions. - Familiarity with the principle of function composition and its application. 3. Logarithms: - Understand logarithmic functions and their properties. - Ability to solve logarithmic equations proficiently. 4. Propositional logic: - Familiarisation with propositional logic. - Construct and interpret truth tables. - Distinguish between contrapositive, converse and inverse of a logical statement. - Understand various logical operators and their properties. - Familiarisation with the laws propositional logic and how to use them to simplify compound propositions or proof equivalence between tow given propositions 5. Logical argument: - Ability to assess the validity of logical arguments. - Proficiency in constructing logical arguments using different reasoning methods. - Understand rule of how to use them to assess the validity of logical arguments. 6. Predicates: - Understand the concept of predicates and quantifiers. - Able to negate predicates involving quantifiers and implications. - Able to translate a quantified statement (a proposition function) into its corresponding statement in words and vis-versa. 7. Boolean algebra: - Proficiency in applying Boolean algebra operations and principles. - Familiarity with Boolean algebraic expressions. - Ability to analyse logic circuits. - Understanding of De Morgan's laws and ability to apply them effectively. - Skill to construct Karnaugh maps. - Knowledge of expressions simplification down to a minimal sum of products. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue