# What is Studiosity?
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/3OwNX/what-is-studiosity

The University of London is piloting an online service called Studiosity to support you with your academic writing. The service can also be used for additional support on topics you might need a refresher on during the course of your study (for example, basic maths questions). Through Studiosity, you will be able to upload drafts of essays, reports, and other written assessment types. Experts in academic writing and detailed feedback will respond to you, explaining how your work can be improved. Read on to access Studiosity and learn more about the service. How to use Studiosity Upload your assignment for fast feedback to check you’re on the right track with your draft. Chat live for instant feedback on writing or on a maths, science, or study questions. Here is what University of London students are asking: "This assignment needs to be structured as a report, can you see if this reads ok?" "Does my conclusion make any sense? "I'm making two very different arguments here, can you give any feedback?" "I keep getting the wrong answer for x, but my working looks ok - can we chat through it?" These are all great examples of the types of questions Studiosity advisors might be able to help you with. Lesson 5.2 Applications Lesson 5.3 Extra resources Lesson 5.4 Summative assessment Lesson 5.5 Midterm assessment Video: Video Mid-Term preparation by Dr Lahcen Ouarbya . Duration: 1 hour 25 minutes 1h 25m Reading: Reading Midterm study guide . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Midterm Key Concepts . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: Practice midterm questions . Duration: 1 hour 1h Reading: Reading [IMPORTANT] - Mid-term Assessment [001] Question3 (e) Update . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Graded Assignment: Mid-Term Assessment [001] Submitted Reading: Reading What is Studiosity? . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Ungraded App Item: Ungraded App Item Studiosity . Duration: 1 hour 1h Reading: Reading What does the feedback cover . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Video: Video New Video . Duration: 1 minute 1 min What is Studiosity? The University of London is piloting an online service called Studiosity to support you with your academic writing. The service can also be used for additional support on topics you might need a refresher on during the course of your study (for example, basic maths questions). Through Studiosity, you will be able to upload drafts of essays, reports, and other written assessment types. Experts in academic writing and detailed feedback will respond to you, explaining how your work can be improved. Read on to access Studiosity and learn more about the service. How to use Studiosity Upload your assignment for fast feedback to check you’re on the right track with your draft. Chat live for instant feedback on writing or on a maths, science, or study questions. Here is what University of London students are asking: "This assignment needs to be structured as a report, can you see if this reads ok?" "Does my conclusion make any sense? "I'm making two very different arguments here, can you give any feedback?" "I keep getting the wrong answer for x, but my working looks ok - can we chat through it?" These are all great examples of the types of questions Studiosity advisors might be able to help you with. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue