# Process simulation
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/1qw09/process-simulation

The next activity is a simulation game in which you play the part of an operating system process manager. It shows a number of processes that might run on a typical computer: a word processor, a video player, email client, web browser and a cloud sync process (for example the dropbox sync process). Your job is to choose which process should run at any given time. You select a process to run by clicking on it. When a process is running it becomes green Some times the processes are waiting for a resource and so don't have anything to run on the CPU. These processes have "WAITING" written before their status. You should not select waiting processes to run as there is no benefit. If a process is not waiting it will need to run every so often to do its work. If it is left without running for too long, the application will start to seem slow to the user. In that case it will be highlighted yellow. Try to stop a process becoming yellow. If a yellow process still isn't run for long enough, the application will seem unresponsive to the user, so much so that it no longer seems to be working. If that happens the process goes red and you lose the game. Lesson 11.0 Introduction Lesson 11.1 History of operating systems Lesson 11.2 Processes Video: Video Processes . Duration: 4 minutes 4 min Reading: Reading Coordinating the machine's activities . Duration: 45 minutes 45 min Practice Assignment: Practice quiz – Five questions on processes . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Reading: Reading Process simulation . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Ungraded Plugin: Simulation: Processes . Duration: 1 hour 1h Process simulation The next activity is a simulation game in which you play the part of an operating system process manager. It shows a number of processes that might run on a typical computer: a word processor, a video player, email client, web browser and a cloud sync process (for example the dropbox sync process). Your job is to choose which process should run at any given time. You select a process to run by clicking on it. When a process is running it becomes green Some times the processes are waiting for a resource and so don't have anything to run on the CPU. These processes have "WAITING" written before their status. You should not select waiting processes to run as there is no benefit. If a process is not waiting it will need to run every so often to do its work. If it is left without running for too long, the application will start to seem slow to the user. In that case it will be highlighted yellow. Try to stop a process becoming yellow. If a yellow process still isn't run for long enough, the application will seem unresponsive to the user, so much so that it no longer seems to be working. If that happens the process goes red and you lose the game. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue