# Activity: Improving your own CV
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/C5e9O/activity-improving-your-own-cv

Use this opportunity to spend some time either creating or updating your own CV and then use the digital tools and resources of the University of London Careers Service to get personalised feedback on your CV. Access our current suite of CV-enhancement webinars, guidelines and AI-enhanced tools at Careers Connect. The University of London Careers Service has identified the following steps to building a great CV: 1. Start with a job specification An effective CV requires that you read and respond to the skills and experience the recruiter is seeking. You might like to check our vacancy feed on for suitable roles. You will also get the most useful personalised feedback if you take the time to find a specific job vacancy for which you would like to apply. This will enable you to use our digital resources and tools to evaluate the targeting of your CV for a particular role. 2. Active language Make sure to use active language in your CV to convey your achievements. Think about using terms like ‘I achieved’, ‘I developed’, ‘I initiated’ or ‘I improved’. Avoid using passive terms like ‘I had to’, ‘I was involved in’ and ‘I was required to’. 3. Brainstorm your skills Think of the skills you have gained – on this module, in the rest of your degree programme, through your work, internships, volunteering or other interests. Match these skills with those required for the job you’re applying for, where possible reflecting some exact skill words from the job details. Your CV should be no more than two pages long. Once you’ve created or enhanced your CV, you can use our AI-enhanced CV evaluation tools on Careers Connect . You can upload job descriptions, CVs and covering letters to receive feedback as many times as you like, so that you can continuously improve your CV and adjust the targeting to different roles while you are a current student with the University of London. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Activity: Improving your own CV Use this opportunity to spend some time either creating or updating your own CV and then use the digital tools and resources of the University of London Careers Service to get personalised feedback on your CV. Access our current suite of CV-enhancement webinars, guidelines and AI-enhanced tools at Careers Connect. The University of London Careers Service has identified the following steps to building a great CV: 1. Start with a job specification An effective CV requires that you read and respond to the skills and experience the recruiter is seeking. You might like to check our vacancy feed on for suitable roles. You will also get the most useful personalised feedback if you take the time to find a specific job vacancy for which you would like to apply. This will enable you to use our digital resources and tools to evaluate the targeting of your CV for a particular role. 2. Active language Make sure to use active language in your CV to convey your achievements. Think about using terms like ‘I achieved’, ‘I developed’, ‘I initiated’ or ‘I improved’. Avoid using passive terms like ‘I had to’, ‘I was involved in’ and ‘I was required to’. 3. Brainstorm your skills Think of the skills you have gained – on this module, in the rest of your degree programme, through your work, internships, volunteering or other interests. Match these skills with those required for the job you’re applying for, where possible reflecting some exact skill words from the job details. Your CV should be no more than two pages long. Once you’ve created or enhanced your CV, you can use our AI-enhanced CV evaluation tools on Careers Connect . You can upload job descriptions, CVs and covering letters to receive feedback as many times as you like, so that you can continuously improve your CV and adjust the targeting to different roles while you are a current student with the University of London. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue