# Information about your assessments
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-1/supplement/OMvb7/information-about-your-assessments

The module will contain a range of summative and formative assessments. Summative assessments are assessments which contribute directly towards your final grade. Formative assessments do not count directly towards your final grade. Instead, they provide you with opportunities for low stakes practice, and will often provide some sort of feedback about your progress. For example, a practice quiz might provide you with feedback about why a particular answer was wrong. The course has two major assessments each worth 50% of your grade: Coursework 1: this consists of a project which will be assessed halfway through course (generally around Week 12) Coursework 2: this also consists of a project which will be assessed at the end of the course (generally around Week 22). There are also several activities that are graded but have zero weighting. That means that they will not count towards your final grade, but they are a key part of your learning, and you need to do them. This is a detailed breakdown of all of the marks: Activity Required? Deadline week Estimated time per week % of final grade Coursework 1 Yes Generally Week 12 2 hours 50% Coursework 2 Yes Generally Week 22 2 hours 50% Lesson 1.2 Introduction to Sleuth Lesson 1.3 Code Philosophy Lesson 1.4 About your assessments Reading: Reading Information about your assessments . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Reflect on your learning . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Information about your assessments The module will contain a range of summative and formative assessments. Summative assessments are assessments which contribute directly towards your final grade. Formative assessments do not count directly towards your final grade. Instead, they provide you with opportunities for low stakes practice, and will often provide some sort of feedback about your progress. For example, a practice quiz might provide you with feedback about why a particular answer was wrong. The course has two major assessments each worth 50% of your grade: Coursework 1: this consists of a project which will be assessed halfway through course (generally around Week 12) Coursework 2: this also consists of a project which will be assessed at the end of the course (generally around Week 22). There are also several activities that are graded but have zero weighting. That means that they will not count towards your final grade, but they are a key part of your learning, and you need to do them. This is a detailed breakdown of all of the marks: Activity Required? Deadline week Estimated time per week % of final grade Coursework 1 Yes Generally Week 12 2 hours 50% Coursework 2 Yes Generally Week 22 2 hours 50% Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue