# Activity – Constructive communication
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/qkbXW/activity-constructive-communication

Linus Torvalds is the creator of the Linux kernel, the core of the Linux operating system and Git, the version control software. However, he is also known for his aggressive communication style in the past, something he has since apologised for (see the article below): Williams C. ‘Linux kernel’s Torvalds: ‘I am truly sorry’ for my ‘unprofessional’ rants, I need a break to get help’ , The Register (2025). After this, he has committed to fostering a more inclusive and respectful environment, including supporting a new code of conduct for Linux developers. In this activity, you will be asked to look at a dataset of Linus Torvalds’ rants, choose one, and rewrite it in a more constructive and professional way. Please note that the original messages from Linus Torvalds include harsh or profane language, which you may find offensive or uncomfortable. These examples provided as an opportunity to learn and practice professional communication. Go to this dataset of ‘rants’ from Linus Torvalds Choose one of the rants and rewrite it in a more constructive and professional way. Tips for making the tone less aggressive and more supportive: Replace harsh language with neutral terms: Instead of saying ‘This is garbage!’, try ‘I have some concerns about this approach.’ Focus on the problem, not the person: Instead of saying ‘You're incompetent!’, explain the specific issue and its impact. Offer solutions or suggestions: Instead of just criticising, suggest alternative approaches or offer to help find a solution. Use ‘I’ statements to express your feelings: Instead of saying ‘You always do this!’, try ‘I feel frustrated when this happens.’ Maintain a respectful and collaborative tone: Even if you're expressing disagreement, do so in a way that encourages collaboration and understanding. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Activity – Constructive communication Linus Torvalds is the creator of the Linux kernel, the core of the Linux operating system and Git, the version control software. However, he is also known for his aggressive communication style in the past, something he has since apologised for (see the article below): Williams C. ‘Linux kernel’s Torvalds: ‘I am truly sorry’ for my ‘unprofessional’ rants, I need a break to get help’ , The Register (2025). After this, he has committed to fostering a more inclusive and respectful environment, including supporting a new code of conduct for Linux developers. In this activity, you will be asked to look at a dataset of Linus Torvalds’ rants, choose one, and rewrite it in a more constructive and professional way. Please note that the original messages from Linus Torvalds include harsh or profane language, which you may find offensive or uncomfortable. These examples provided as an opportunity to learn and practice professional communication. Go to this dataset of ‘rants’ from Linus Torvalds Choose one of the rants and rewrite it in a more constructive and professional way. Tips for making the tone less aggressive and more supportive: Replace harsh language with neutral terms: Instead of saying ‘This is garbage!’, try ‘I have some concerns about this approach.’ Focus on the problem, not the person: Instead of saying ‘You're incompetent!’, explain the specific issue and its impact. Offer solutions or suggestions: Instead of just criticising, suggest alternative approaches or offer to help find a solution. Use ‘I’ statements to express your feelings: Instead of saying ‘You always do this!’, try ‘I feel frustrated when this happens.’ Maintain a respectful and collaborative tone: Even if you're expressing disagreement, do so in a way that encourages collaboration and understanding. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue