# Using explainable AI (XAI) against phishing attacks
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/Bp0yA/using-explainable-ai-xai-against-phishing-attacks

In the video, we examined the growing sophistication of phishing attacks and the challenges they pose for organisations, even when standard cybersecurity measures are in place. This reading builds on these ideas by proposing a multi-phase framework, which provides organisations with transparent, data-driven guidance on how to strengthen defences, invest wisely and enhance resilience against phishing threats. Read: Biswas, B., A. Mukhopadhyay, A. Kumar and D. Delen ‘A hybrid framework using explainable AI (XAI) in cyber-risk management for defence and recovery against phishing attacks’, Decision Support Systems 177 2024, p.114102. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, focus on: how the framework uses explainable AI (XAI) to make phishing risk analysis more transparent how the framework connects technical risk assessment to practical decisions about security investment and insurance. Using explainable AI (XAI) against phishing attacks In the video, we examined the growing sophistication of phishing attacks and the challenges they pose for organisations, even when standard cybersecurity measures are in place. This reading builds on these ideas by proposing a multi-phase framework, which provides organisations with transparent, data-driven guidance on how to strengthen defences, invest wisely and enhance resilience against phishing threats. Read: Biswas, B., A. Mukhopadhyay, A. Kumar and D. Delen ‘A hybrid framework using explainable AI (XAI) in cyber-risk management for defence and recovery against phishing attacks’, Decision Support Systems 177 2024, p.114102. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, focus on: how the framework uses explainable AI (XAI) to make phishing risk analysis more transparent how the framework connects technical risk assessment to practical decisions about security investment and insurance. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue