# Discrete Mathematics syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/qTxSw/discrete-mathematics-syllabus

Course Description Discrete mathematics covers mathematical topics relating to discrete structures and processes that students of computer science will encounter throughout their study. This module helps you hone your skills in thinking abstractly. This module covers widely applicable mathematical tools for computer science, including topics from logic, set theory, combinatorics, and graph theory. It includes practice in reasoning formally and proving theorems. It helps learning to reason rigorously, and to distinguish correct from faulty mathematical arguments. Through this module, you will develop the fundamental discrete mathematical tools that will support you throughout the BSc Computer Science programme. You will learn a wide range of the discrete mathematical concepts and techniques that underpin Computer Science. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: Manipulate Boolean expressions and interpret them as set descriptors Interpret logical statements, produce truth tables, and prove logical properties Explain the relationship between recursion and induction and do simple induction proofs Describe the correspondence between relations and graphs, and prove properties of special relations Define properties of trees and graphs Textbook and Readings The essential readings for this course will come from the following textbooks, which are available in the University of London digital library: Rosen, K. H.Discrete Mathematics and its Applications.(New York: McGraw Hill, 2012)7th Edition [9780073383095]. Mackinson, D. Sets, Logic and Maths for Computing. (London: Springer,2012) 2nd Edition [9781447125006]. Koshy,T. Discrete Mathematics with Applications.(Massachusetts: Elsevier Academic Press, 2004) [9780080477343]. This course does not require you to read the entirety of the books, you will be given specific readings for each topic from these texts. These are listed with direct links on the readings page for each topic. You will also be asked to do some independent research from online sources or using the University of London digital library. Course Outline The course consists of 10 topics, each of which spans 2 weeks. Topic Learning objectives Topic 1: Sets Define a set, the elements of a set and the cardinality of a set. Explain the concept of Venn diagrams and how they are used to represent and compare different set expressions. Describe and prove De Morgan’s law using membership tables. Define the concepts of the union, intersection, set difference and symmetric difference, and the concept of a membership table. Define the concepts of the universal set and the complement of a set, and the difference between a set and a powerset of a set. Topic 2: Functions Define a function. Describe the properties of functions. Explain how to plot a function. Discuss special functions. Describe inverse functions. Topic 3: Propositional logic Explain and apply basic concepts of propositional logic. Construct truth tables of propositions and use them to demonstrate the equivalence of logical statements. Translate natural language statements into symbolic logical statements and vice versa. Demonstrate how to formalise a logical implication. Apply the laws of propositional to analyse propositions and arguments. Topic 4: Predicate logic Describe the basic concepts of predicate logic. Describe existential and universal quantifiers. Assign truth values to quantified statements. Identify logical equivalence involving quantifiers and apply De Morgan's laws. Apply predicate logic to programming. Topic 5: Boolean algebra Write Boolean expressions. Use the laws of Boolean algebra to simplify Boolean expressions. Represent a Boolean function. Simplify logic circuits/expressions. Convert truth tables into Boolean expressions and vice versa. Topic 6: Mathematical induction State the principle of mathematical induction. Discuss the ideas of the base step and inductive step in a proof by mathematical induction. Apply the ideas of mathematical induction to recursion and recursively defined structures. Describe the concept of recursion and give examples of its application. Identify the base case and the general case of a recursively defined problem. Topic 7: Graphs Define a graph, edges, vertices, parallel edges, loops, cycles and walk, path and connected graphs. Describe the degree sequence of a graph and the relation that links the sum of the degree sequence. Describe special graphs: simple graphs, complete graphs and r-regular graphs. Define the adjacency matrix of a graph. Topic 8: Trees Define a tree. Define spanning trees. Define non-isomorphic spanning trees. Topic 9: Relations Define a relation. Define a relation digraph. Describe the properties of a relation. Define an equivalence relation. Define partial and total order. Topic 10: Combinatorics Apply the addition principle and the multiplication principle to count objects when they are sampled with or without replacement. Calculate the number of permutations of length r chosen from a set of n objects. Demonstrate how to use combination formulae to count the number of unordered subsets of r objects taken from a set of n distinct objects. Distinguish between combinations and permutations. Apply the techniques learnt to new counting problems. Learning Activities of This Course The course is comprised of the following elements: Lecture videos. In each module the key concepts will be presented through a collection of short video lectures. You may stream these videos for playback within the browser by clicking on their titles or download the videos. Readings. Each topic may include several suggested readings. These are a core part of your learning, and, together with the videos, will cover all of the concepts you need for this course. Practice Quizzes. Each topic will include practice quizzes, intended for you to assess your understanding of the key concepts. End of topic quizzes in the second half of the course will not contribute to your final grade, but will provide important practice for your exam. You will be allowed unlimited attempts at each practice quiz. Each attempt may present a different selection of questions to you. There is no time limit on how long you take to complete each attempt at the quiz. All practice quizzes do not contribute toward your final score in the course. Graded Quizzes. Every topic in Topics 1–5 will include at least one summative quiz. These will be at the end of the week and clearly labelled as ‘Summative quiz’. These quizzes will contribute to your coursework grade. You will be allowed two attempts per quiz. Your average score will be used when calculating your final score for the summative quiz. You must wait at least 8 hours before taking your second attempt at the quiz. Peer Reviewed Assignments. Topics 1-5 include peer reviewed assignments. These exercises will test your understanding of the concepts. You will read a short prompt, then perform a task in response. You will then be required to review three of your peers' submissions. Peer reviewed assignments will not contribute to your final grade, but will be valuable practice for your coursework and exam. Discussion Prompt. Each topic include discussion prompts. You will see the discussion prompt alongside other items in the lesson. Each prompt provides a space for you to respond. After responding, you can see and comment on your peers' responses. All prompts and responses are also accessible from your private group discussion forum. How to Pass This Course The course has two major assessments each worth 50% of your grade: Coursework: this consists of several activities that you do on the Coursera platform and which will be assessed half way through course. Written examination: this will be an online timed assessment. There are also peer reviews in every topic that are graded but have 0 weight. That means that they will not count towards your final grade, but they are a key part of your learning and you need to do them. The mark shown on the Coursera platform is your coursework mark and you should remember that the exam counts for another 50%. The assessment consists of several activities. This is a detailed breakdown of all of the marks. Activity Required? Deadline week Estimated time per module % of final grade End of week quizzes for Topics 1–5 Yes 1–12 1–2 hours 20% Written, staff graded coursework Yes 13 20 hours 30% Written examination Yes 22 3 hours 50% Lesson 1.0 Introduction to the course Video: Video Introduction to discrete mathematics . Duration: 4 minutes 4 min Reading: Reading Discrete Mathematics syllabus . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Getting started in this module . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Video: Video Careers video . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Discussion Prompt: What do you know about sets? . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Lesson 1.1 Introduction to set theory Discrete Mathematics syllabus Course Description Discrete mathematics covers mathematical topics relating to discrete structures and processes that students of computer science will encounter throughout their study. This module helps you hone your skills in thinking abstractly. This module covers widely applicable mathematical tools for computer science, including topics from logic, set theory, combinatorics, and graph theory. It includes practice in reasoning formally and proving theorems. It helps learning to reason rigorously, and to distinguish correct from faulty mathematical arguments. Through this module, you will develop the fundamental discrete mathematical tools that will support you throughout the BSc Computer Science programme. You will learn a wide range of the discrete mathematical concepts and techniques that underpin Computer Science. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: Manipulate Boolean expressions and interpret them as set descriptors Interpret logical statements, produce truth tables, and prove logical properties Explain the relationship between recursion and induction and do simple induction proofs Describe the correspondence between relations and graphs, and prove properties of special relations Define properties of trees and graphs Textbook and Readings The essential readings for this course will come from the following textbooks, which are available in the University of London digital library: Rosen, K. H.Discrete Mathematics and its Applications.(New York: McGraw Hill, 2012)7th Edition [9780073383095]. Mackinson, D. Sets, Logic and Maths for Computing. (London: Springer,2012) 2nd Edition [9781447125006]. Koshy,T. Discrete Mathematics with Applications.(Massachusetts: Elsevier Academic Press, 2004) [9780080477343]. This course does not require you to read the entirety of the books, you will be given specific readings for each topic from these texts. These are listed with direct links on the readings page for each topic. You will also be asked to do some independent research from online sources or using the University of London digital library. Course Outline The course consists of 10 topics, each of which spans 2 weeks. Topic Learning objectives Topic 1: Sets Define a set, the elements of a set and the cardinality of a set. Explain the concept of Venn diagrams and how they are used to represent and compare different set expressions. Describe and prove De Morgan’s law using membership tables. Define the concepts of the union, intersection, set difference and symmetric difference, and the concept of a membership table. Define the concepts of the universal set and the complement of a set, and the difference between a set and a powerset of a set. Topic 2: Functions Define a function. Describe the properties of functions. Explain how to plot a function. Discuss special functions. Describe inverse functions. Topic 3: Propositional logic Explain and apply basic concepts of propositional logic. Construct truth tables of propositions and use them to demonstrate the equivalence of logical statements. Translate natural language statements into symbolic logical statements and vice versa. Demonstrate how to formalise a logical implication. Apply the laws of propositional to analyse propositions and arguments. Topic 4: Predicate logic Describe the basic concepts of predicate logic. Describe existential and universal quantifiers. Assign truth values to quantified statements. Identify logical equivalence involving quantifiers and apply De Morgan's laws. Apply predicate logic to programming. Topic 5: Boolean algebra Write Boolean expressions. Use the laws of Boolean algebra to simplify Boolean expressions. Represent a Boolean function. Simplify logic circuits/expressions. Convert truth tables into Boolean expressions and vice versa. Topic 6: Mathematical induction State the principle of mathematical induction. Discuss the ideas of the base step and inductive step in a proof by mathematical induction. Apply the ideas of mathematical induction to recursion and recursively defined structures. Describe the concept of recursion and give examples of its application. Identify the base case and the general case of a recursively defined problem. Topic 7: Graphs Define a graph, edges, vertices, parallel edges, loops, cycles and walk, path and connected graphs. Describe the degree sequence of a graph and the relation that links the sum of the degree sequence. Describe special graphs: simple graphs, complete graphs and r-regular graphs. Define the adjacency matrix of a graph. Topic 8: Trees Define a tree. Define spanning trees. Define non-isomorphic spanning trees. Topic 9: Relations Define a relation. Define a relation digraph. Describe the properties of a relation. Define an equivalence relation. Define partial and total order. Topic 10: Combinatorics Apply the addition principle and the multiplication principle to count objects when they are sampled with or without replacement. Calculate the number of permutations of length r chosen from a set of n objects. Demonstrate how to use combination formulae to count the number of unordered subsets of r objects taken from a set of n distinct objects. Distinguish between combinations and permutations. Apply the techniques learnt to new counting problems. Learning Activities of This Course The course is comprised of the following elements: Lecture videos. In each module the key concepts will be presented through a collection of short video lectures. You may stream these videos for playback within the browser by clicking on their titles or download the videos. Readings. Each topic may include several suggested readings. These are a core part of your learning, and, together with the videos, will cover all of the concepts you need for this course. Practice Quizzes. Each topic will include practice quizzes, intended for you to assess your understanding of the key concepts. End of topic quizzes in the second half of the course will not contribute to your final grade, but will provide important practice for your exam. You will be allowed unlimited attempts at each practice quiz. Each attempt may present a different selection of questions to you. There is no time limit on how long you take to complete each attempt at the quiz. All practice quizzes do not contribute toward your final score in the course. Graded Quizzes. Every topic in Topics 1–5 will include at least one summative quiz. These will be at the end of the week and clearly labelled as ‘Summative quiz’. These quizzes will contribute to your coursework grade. You will be allowed two attempts per quiz. Your average score will be used when calculating your final score for the summative quiz. You must wait at least 8 hours before taking your second attempt at the quiz. Peer Reviewed Assignments. Topics 1-5 include peer reviewed assignments. These exercises will test your understanding of the concepts. You will read a short prompt, then perform a task in response. You will then be required to review three of your peers' submissions. Peer reviewed assignments will not contribute to your final grade, but will be valuable practice for your coursework and exam. Discussion Prompt. Each topic include discussion prompts. You will see the discussion prompt alongside other items in the lesson. Each prompt provides a space for you to respond. After responding, you can see and comment on your peers' responses. All prompts and responses are also accessible from your private group discussion forum. How to Pass This Course The course has two major assessments each worth 50% of your grade: Coursework: this consists of several activities that you do on the Coursera platform and which will be assessed half way through course. Written examination: this will be an online timed assessment. There are also peer reviews in every topic that are graded but have 0 weight. That means that they will not count towards your final grade, but they are a key part of your learning and you need to do them. The mark shown on the Coursera platform is your coursework mark and you should remember that the exam counts for another 50%. The assessment consists of several activities. This is a detailed breakdown of all of the marks. Activity Required? Deadline week Estimated time per module % of final grade End of week quizzes for Topics 1–5 Yes 1–12 1–2 hours 20% Written, staff graded coursework Yes 13 20 hours 30% Written examination Yes 22 3 hours 50% Go to next item Completed Dislike Report an issue