# Topic 1 summary and evaluation
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/wTpMp/topic-1-summary-and-evaluation

In the first topic of this module, you reviewed the object orientation techniques we introduced at the end of Introduction to Programming I. You have extended your knowledge with a formal understanding of object orientation and how you can use these techniques to make your programmes more readable and extendable. As you progress through this module, these techniques will become increasingly important. You will use them extensively in future applications and your assessment. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review your knowledge with the following checklist and review your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. To mark an item off this checklist, you should have implemented the zombie horde example and completed the chocolate shop debug challenge. You can explain the theory of object orientation, including abstraction and encapsulation. You have knowledge of the syntax for writing constructor functions in JavaScript and you can put it into practice. You can convert an application from using variables, to object literals and to constructor functions. You know how to divide your code up into multiple files. You can explain the difference between public and private members. You know the syntax to implement them. You can debug complex issues. Understanding the effect of passing by value on objects and simple variables. Topic 1 summary and evaluation In the first topic of this module, you reviewed the object orientation techniques we introduced at the end of Introduction to Programming I. You have extended your knowledge with a formal understanding of object orientation and how you can use these techniques to make your programmes more readable and extendable. As you progress through this module, these techniques will become increasingly important. You will use them extensively in future applications and your assessment. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review your knowledge with the following checklist and review your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. To mark an item off this checklist, you should have implemented the zombie horde example and completed the chocolate shop debug challenge. You can explain the theory of object orientation, including abstraction and encapsulation. You have knowledge of the syntax for writing constructor functions in JavaScript and you can put it into practice. You can convert an application from using variables, to object literals and to constructor functions. You know how to divide your code up into multiple files. You can explain the difference between public and private members. You know the syntax to implement them. You can debug complex issues. Understanding the effect of passing by value on objects and simple variables. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue