# 

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/aJzdj/sets-reading-and-practice-questions

Read the following extracts from the Koshy textbook. These pages will cover the following topics: the definition of a set; elements of a set; cardinality of a set; listing method; set builder method; subsets of a set; and powersets. Koshy, T. Discrete Mathematics with Applications. (Burlington: Elsevier Academic Press, 2004), pp. 67–70 and pp.72–75 . This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book. Once you’ve finished reading, attempt the following questions from Exercises 2.1 on pp.76: 1–27, 30–36 and 41–44. Several exercises have solutions at the back of the book under the section, ‘Solutions to Odd-Numbered Exercises’. Please consult this section to check the answer to your exercises. If you got the answer wrong, take a look back at the question and see how you can arrive at the right answer. Lesson 1.0 Introduction to the course Lesson 1.1 Introduction to set theory Video: Video The definition of a set . Duration: 8 minutes 8 min Reading: Reading The definition of a set . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: The definition of a set Submitted Video: Video The listing method and rule of inclusion . Duration: 8 minutes 8 min Practice Assignment: The listing method and rule of inclusion Submitted Video: Video The powerset of a set . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: The powerset of a set Submitted Video: Video Set operations . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: Set operations Submitted Reading: Reading Sets reading and practice questions . Duration: 40 minutes 40 min Sets reading and practice questions Read the following extracts from the Koshy textbook. These pages will cover the following topics: the definition of a set; elements of a set; cardinality of a set; listing method; set builder method; subsets of a set; and powersets. Koshy, T. Discrete Mathematics with Applications. (Burlington: Elsevier Academic Press, 2004), pp. 67–70 and pp.72–75 . This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book. Once you’ve finished reading, attempt the following questions from Exercises 2.1 on pp.76: 1–27, 30–36 and 41–44. Several exercises have solutions at the back of the book under the section, ‘Solutions to Odd-Numbered Exercises’. Please consult this section to check the answer to your exercises. If you got the answer wrong, take a look back at the question and see how you can arrive at the right answer. Go to next item Completed Dislike Report an issue