# Enhance your understanding of teamwork and collaboration project management with our University of London Careers Service resources
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/OW4Fi/enhance-your-understanding-of-teamwork-and-collaboration-project-management-with

Navigate through our careers and employability micromodules at Careers Connect to learn more about teamwork and collaboration from a Career Development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your teamwork and collaboration? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on collaboration. Explore one of the resources below. Check out the ‘Enhancing & Showcasing Your Professional Skills’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find webinars on topics such as ‘Adding Value to Teams’ and ‘Managing Global Teams’. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Enhance your understanding of teamwork and collaboration project management with our University of London Careers Service resources Navigate through our careers and employability micromodules at Careers Connect to learn more about teamwork and collaboration from a Career Development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your teamwork and collaboration? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on collaboration. Explore one of the resources below. Check out the ‘Enhancing & Showcasing Your Professional Skills’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find webinars on topics such as ‘Adding Value to Teams’ and ‘Managing Global Teams’. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue