# Case study: Cybersecurity breaches
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 50 minutes
1h 50m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/pVOT4/case-study-cybersecurity-breaches

The cybersecurity breaches listed below were fairly prominent in the news at the time and highlight the challenge that big organisations face when trying to manage and secure digital content – alongside providing accessible services. When a system is exploited it can cause all manner of things to happen, from exposing data that might not be secured properly to denying people access to important products and services. This is not a computer security course so we are not concerned with how these systems were breached; our job as technical people is to understand both the scale of attacks and their associated impact. Research one of the breaches listed below and then read the Schneier extract. As you're researching and reading, reflect on the impact of these breachers. Part 1: Research 1. Equifax data breach (2017): This breach exposed the personal information of 147 million people due to a vulnerability in their web application software. 2. Yahoo! data breach (2013-2014): This massive breach affected all 3 billion Yahoo! user accounts due to a combination of factors, including poor security practices and inadequate incident response. 3. Sony PlayStation network outage (2011): This outage resulted in the loss of access for a fairly lengthy time, to a service that many had paid subscription fees for. Part 2: Reading Schneier, B. Data and Goliath: The hidden battles to collect your data and control your world. (New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2016). Chapter 5. OL-CM2045-Schneier-11193 Accessible.pdf PDF File Case study: Cybersecurity breaches The cybersecurity breaches listed below were fairly prominent in the news at the time and highlight the challenge that big organisations face when trying to manage and secure digital content – alongside providing accessible services. When a system is exploited it can cause all manner of things to happen, from exposing data that might not be secured properly to denying people access to important products and services. This is not a computer security course so we are not concerned with how these systems were breached; our job as technical people is to understand both the scale of attacks and their associated impact. Research one of the breaches listed below and then read the Schneier extract. As you're researching and reading, reflect on the impact of these breachers. Part 1: Research 1. Equifax data breach (2017): This breach exposed the personal information of 147 million people due to a vulnerability in their web application software. 2. Yahoo! data breach (2013-2014): This massive breach affected all 3 billion Yahoo! user accounts due to a combination of factors, including poor security practices and inadequate incident response. 3. Sony PlayStation network outage (2011): This outage resulted in the loss of access for a fairly lengthy time, to a service that many had paid subscription fees for. Part 2: Reading Schneier, B. Data and Goliath: The hidden battles to collect your data and control your world. (New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2016). Chapter 5. OL-CM2045-Schneier-11193 Accessible.pdf PDF File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue