# Gantt charts
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/vAKGr/gantt-charts

Gantt charts are a useful way to determine what tasks need to be completed to finish a project and how to divide resources, including time, to different activities. Having watched the previous video, you should now build a Gantt chart for your project. Use this template to build your Gantt chart: Gantt Template XLSX File the video and decide how to divide up your tasks and time effectively. Consider the following: What tasks do you need to complete for your project? Remember to include documentation and logging. How granular are your tasks? Are they too big to manage or too small to sensibly action? How much time should you be allocating to each task? Is there a sequence you need to follow to get everything done in? Reflect upon your Gantt charts design. You will be asked to upload the Gantt chart as part of your submission to the mid-term assignment in a few weeks’ time. You should also be reviewing your planning carefully throughout the project. Gantt charts Gantt charts are a useful way to determine what tasks need to be completed to finish a project and how to divide resources, including time, to different activities. Having watched the previous video, you should now build a Gantt chart for your project. Use this template to build your Gantt chart: Gantt Template XLSX File the video and decide how to divide up your tasks and time effectively. Consider the following: What tasks do you need to complete for your project? Remember to include documentation and logging. How granular are your tasks? Are they too big to manage or too small to sensibly action? How much time should you be allocating to each task? Is there a sequence you need to follow to get everything done in? Reflect upon your Gantt charts design. You will be asked to upload the Gantt chart as part of your submission to the mid-term assignment in a few weeks’ time. You should also be reviewing your planning carefully throughout the project. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue