# Introduction to Programming II project
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/8zNCl/introduction-to-programming-ii-project

The assessment for this module is to extend one of the three template applications with your own tools or visualisations. You have now seen all three of the templates and will have to choose one to build upon for your project. You should use one of these three template downloads for completing the project. These versions of the applications don’t include the incompletions and issues of the case study version you will have downloaded earlier. draw-app-masterV2 ZIP File musicVis-master ZIP File data-vis ZIP File We will provide you with example extensions for each application over the next three topics you can use these as help and as a start point. Mostly we will show you the implementation of the extension outside of the template, so they will need to be adapted to work within the app. Also, we will be expecting you to improve on these initial implementations and include additional extensions based on your own ideas. You can only include a maximum of two of the extensions from Topics 5, 6 or 7 in your final submission The exact number of extensions you should include in your submission depends upon their complexity and programming techniques you use. You should consult the mark scheme and ensure that you have included the techniques listed in extensions you have written as well as the ones we have shown you. In addition you can use the following example projects as a guide. Introduction to Programming II: Example final projects.pdf PDF File Submission guidelines We have set a few additional guidelines to ensure that your application is easy to mark and you won’t accidentally plagiarise the work of others. Please adhere to the following guidelines: CM1010_Assesment_Guidelines.pdf PDF File Plagiarism You should not include any code that is the same as another student's. We will be using plagiarism detection software across all submissions to detect similarities. If you have sourced code from the internet, make sure you clearly label it in both the code and in the correct section of the midterm and final report. Do not host code on publicly available version control repositories (i.e. GitHub) before or after the submission. Failure to follow these rules can result in an academic misconduct investigation, you can find guidance on plagiarism in the University of London's General Regulations . External resources Your code must not make use of an external server; including both one you have setup or one that is run by a third party. To mark your work we should only need to open the code in Brackets and launch the application. If you use an external library, you must use a local version of the code not a web link to a CDN service. Project deliverable You will submit two project deliverables: a midterm assignment that will be set in Topic 6 and the final submission in Topic 10. Midterm For this assignment, you will need to submit the code you have produced for your project to date and written responses to the report prompts in the ‘My Assignment’ tab. The aim of this assignment is to make sure that your project meets the requirements for the main submission at the end of the module and that you have made sufficient progress so far. The assessment of your project will also be based on use of design and planning techniques, and the quality of your writing. mid-term ms.pdf PDF File Final submission In this assignment you will need to submit the finalised code you have produced for your project and a further short report. In the report you will outline your project, discuss the effectiveness of the plan and write a short evaluation of your code. You will be assessed on the quality and complexity of your code, its stability and the answers you provide for the report. final ms.pdf PDF File Introduction to Programming II project The assessment for this module is to extend one of the three template applications with your own tools or visualisations. You have now seen all three of the templates and will have to choose one to build upon for your project. You should use one of these three template downloads for completing the project. These versions of the applications don’t include the incompletions and issues of the case study version you will have downloaded earlier. draw-app-masterV2 ZIP File musicVis-master ZIP File data-vis ZIP File We will provide you with example extensions for each application over the next three topics you can use these as help and as a start point. Mostly we will show you the implementation of the extension outside of the template, so they will need to be adapted to work within the app. Also, we will be expecting you to improve on these initial implementations and include additional extensions based on your own ideas. You can only include a maximum of two of the extensions from Topics 5, 6 or 7 in your final submission The exact number of extensions you should include in your submission depends upon their complexity and programming techniques you use. You should consult the mark scheme and ensure that you have included the techniques listed in extensions you have written as well as the ones we have shown you. In addition you can use the following example projects as a guide. Introduction to Programming II: Example final projects.pdf PDF File Submission guidelines We have set a few additional guidelines to ensure that your application is easy to mark and you won’t accidentally plagiarise the work of others. Please adhere to the following guidelines: CM1010_Assesment_Guidelines.pdf PDF File Plagiarism You should not include any code that is the same as another student's. We will be using plagiarism detection software across all submissions to detect similarities. If you have sourced code from the internet, make sure you clearly label it in both the code and in the correct section of the midterm and final report. Do not host code on publicly available version control repositories (i.e. GitHub) before or after the submission. Failure to follow these rules can result in an academic misconduct investigation, you can find guidance on plagiarism in the University of London's General Regulations . External resources Your code must not make use of an external server; including both one you have setup or one that is run by a third party. To mark your work we should only need to open the code in Brackets and launch the application. If you use an external library, you must use a local version of the code not a web link to a CDN service. Project deliverable You will submit two project deliverables: a midterm assignment that will be set in Topic 6 and the final submission in Topic 10. Midterm For this assignment, you will need to submit the code you have produced for your project to date and written responses to the report prompts in the ‘My Assignment’ tab. The aim of this assignment is to make sure that your project meets the requirements for the main submission at the end of the module and that you have made sufficient progress so far. The assessment of your project will also be based on use of design and planning techniques, and the quality of your writing. mid-term ms.pdf PDF File Final submission In this assignment you will need to submit the finalised code you have produced for your project and a further short report. In the report you will outline your project, discuss the effectiveness of the plan and write a short evaluation of your code. You will be assessed on the quality and complexity of your code, its stability and the answers you provide for the report. final ms.pdf PDF File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue