# Exploratory data analysis techniques
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2015-programming-with-data/supplement/RoC8x/exploratory-data-analysis-techniques

This reading introduces different methods to explore text data using informative features like frequency distributions, length of words and collocated words. Bird, S., E. Klein and E. Loper Natural Language Processing with Python: Analysing Text with the Natural Language Toolkit. (Sebastopol: O’Reilly Media, 2009), 1.3 Computing with Language: Simple Statistics, pp.16–22 . Think about a static dataset such as this one https://www.kaggle.com/code/desalegngeb/english-premier-league-players-statistics/notebook#1.-Introduction- and then consider the sorts of features that might be of interest to you. If you were to take a job in the sports science field for example, would you feel confident you could contribute positively to the environment? A big part of data science is often about developing expertise (quickly) to ask the right questions and produce some useful introspective insights. Could you combine something like word frequency distributions and sentiment analysis from social commentary on players with data like this to produce a more grounded and better informed discussion? Good research often uses mixed methods approaches to explain both the 'how' and 'why.' This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book. If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Exploratory data analysis techniques This reading introduces different methods to explore text data using informative features like frequency distributions, length of words and collocated words. Bird, S., E. Klein and E. Loper Natural Language Processing with Python: Analysing Text with the Natural Language Toolkit. (Sebastopol: O’Reilly Media, 2009), 1.3 Computing with Language: Simple Statistics, pp.16–22 . Think about a static dataset such as this one https://www.kaggle.com/code/desalegngeb/english-premier-league-players-statistics/notebook#1.-Introduction- and then consider the sorts of features that might be of interest to you. If you were to take a job in the sports science field for example, would you feel confident you could contribute positively to the environment? A big part of data science is often about developing expertise (quickly) to ask the right questions and produce some useful introspective insights. Could you combine something like word frequency distributions and sentiment analysis from social commentary on players with data like this to produce a more grounded and better informed discussion? Good research often uses mixed methods approaches to explain both the 'how' and 'why.' This reading is available in the Online Library and in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book. If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue