# Hack it: Particles
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/EvrgR/hack-it-particles

In this example you'll code particles that fall when the mouse is dragged and bounce on the ground as in the image above. Steps to complete Step 1: Start from the forceAccumulation provided in this week's examples. Rename the ball variable to a balls and initialise it as an empty array. Step 2: Create a for loop inside the draw() function and loop over all balls. Within the loop execute all code that would be previously applied to a single ball. Remember, balls is now an array eventually containing many balls. (Hint: Use the length property of the array to loop over it and an index to access a specific ball in the array.) Step 3: Create a mouseDragged() function and write within it: balls.push(new Ball(mouseX, mouseY)); in order to push a new ball to the array every time the mouse is dragged. We’re not done yet! Notice that the call to create a new ball passes the location of the mouse to the constructor. Step 4: Modify the constructor of the Ball class in order to take two parameters, x and y. Use these to initialise the location vector in the constructor. If you’ve done things right, as you drag the mouse you should see many balls being generated and flying off in the same direction. Step 5: In the constructor set the initial values of velocity to be random from -3 to 3 for both x and y components. Set the size to also be random. If you’ve done things right, as you drag the mouse you should see many particles of various sizes being initialised. Ideas for further development experiment with different colors. add a variable age in the ball class. When a ball is initialised have it be equal to 255. In every loop reduce it by 1 and use age as a transparency for the color of the particle. experiment with different levels of friction. create a function buttonPressed() that clears the array when a button is pressed. Hack it: Particles In this example you'll code particles that fall when the mouse is dragged and bounce on the ground as in the image above. Steps to complete Step 1: Start from the forceAccumulation provided in this week's examples. Rename the ball variable to a balls and initialise it as an empty array. Step 2: Create a for loop inside the draw() function and loop over all balls. Within the loop execute all code that would be previously applied to a single ball. Remember, balls is now an array eventually containing many balls. (Hint: Use the length property of the array to loop over it and an index to access a specific ball in the array.) Step 3: Create a mouseDragged() function and write within it: balls.push(new Ball(mouseX, mouseY)); in order to push a new ball to the array every time the mouse is dragged. We’re not done yet! Notice that the call to create a new ball passes the location of the mouse to the constructor. Step 4: Modify the constructor of the Ball class in order to take two parameters, x and y. Use these to initialise the location vector in the constructor. If you’ve done things right, as you drag the mouse you should see many balls being generated and flying off in the same direction. Step 5: In the constructor set the initial values of velocity to be random from -3 to 3 for both x and y components. Set the size to also be random. If you’ve done things right, as you drag the mouse you should see many particles of various sizes being initialised. Ideas for further development experiment with different colors. add a variable age in the ball class. When a ball is initialised have it be equal to 255. In every loop reduce it by 1 and use age as a transparency for the color of the particle. experiment with different levels of friction. create a function buttonPressed() that clears the array when a button is pressed. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue