# Week 5 self-evaluation and reflection
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-algorithms-and-data-structures-2/supplement/a5FNE/week-5-self-evaluation-and-reflection

As you progress through your course, it is crucial to regularly assess your understanding and capabilities against the learning outcomes. This exercise is designed to help you reflect on your learning journey, identify areas where you may need to deepen your knowledge or skills, and develop a plan for improvement. Use this checklist to evaluate your understanding of the lessons covered in Week 5. If you don't feel confident about any of these concepts/tasks, revisit the relevant lecture videos, readings and activities to help you consolidate your knowledge. 1. Understanding the Approaches of Sorting Algorithms I can explain the concept of comparison-based sorting algorithms. I can describe the approach and methodology of bubble sort. I can describe the approach and methodology of insertion sort. I can describe the approach and methodology of selection sort. I understand the use cases and contexts where each sorting algorithm is most efficient. 2. Implementation of Sorting Algorithms I can implement bubble sort in code. I can implement insertion sort in code. I can implement selection sort in code. 3. Time Complexity Analysis I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of bubble sort. I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of insertion sort. I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of selection sort. 4. General Skills and Application I feel confident identifying the most suitable sorting algorithm for a given problem. I can compare the efficiency and practicality of different sorting algorithms. I can debug and optimize the implementation of sorting algorithms. Week 5 self-evaluation and reflection As you progress through your course, it is crucial to regularly assess your understanding and capabilities against the learning outcomes. This exercise is designed to help you reflect on your learning journey, identify areas where you may need to deepen your knowledge or skills, and develop a plan for improvement. Use this checklist to evaluate your understanding of the lessons covered in Week 5. If you don't feel confident about any of these concepts/tasks, revisit the relevant lecture videos, readings and activities to help you consolidate your knowledge. 1. Understanding the Approaches of Sorting Algorithms I can explain the concept of comparison-based sorting algorithms. I can describe the approach and methodology of bubble sort. I can describe the approach and methodology of insertion sort. I can describe the approach and methodology of selection sort. I understand the use cases and contexts where each sorting algorithm is most efficient. 2. Implementation of Sorting Algorithms I can implement bubble sort in code. I can implement insertion sort in code. I can implement selection sort in code. 3. Time Complexity Analysis I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of bubble sort. I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of insertion sort. I can calculate the time complexity for the best, worst, and average cases of selection sort. 4. General Skills and Application I feel confident identifying the most suitable sorting algorithm for a given problem. I can compare the efficiency and practicality of different sorting algorithms. I can debug and optimize the implementation of sorting algorithms. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue