# Code editor: important information
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/uSd50/code-editor-important-information

As with Introduction to Programming I, we are transitioning to a new code editor for this course: Visual Studio Code (VS Code). While our course has traditionally used Brackets, please note that Brackets is no longer supported by Adobe. Therefore, even if you can still use Brackets, we strongly recommend transitioning to VS Code for your coding activities. VS Code offers a robust, modern and widely supported development environment with many powerful features. We will cover the basics of Visual Studio Code in later videos. In the meantime, you can download it at the following link: Visual Studio Code . You can also check the documentation here: Microsoft ‘ Getting started ’ (2024). We recommend starting with the following sections: Setup: Setting up Visual Studio Code User interface Basic editing Thanks for reading and happy coding. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Code editor: important information As with Introduction to Programming I, we are transitioning to a new code editor for this course: Visual Studio Code (VS Code). While our course has traditionally used Brackets, please note that Brackets is no longer supported by Adobe. Therefore, even if you can still use Brackets, we strongly recommend transitioning to VS Code for your coding activities. VS Code offers a robust, modern and widely supported development environment with many powerful features. We will cover the basics of Visual Studio Code in later videos. In the meantime, you can download it at the following link: Visual Studio Code . You can also check the documentation here: Microsoft ‘ Getting started ’ (2024). We recommend starting with the following sections: Setup: Setting up Visual Studio Code User interface Basic editing Thanks for reading and happy coding. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue