# Object orientation in practice
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/rktR0/object-orientation-in-practice

In the preceding two videos, Simon described an example that builds upon the previous flying saucer examples. In the new starter, Simon has added a cow object. You can download the code here: T1.205 ZIP File Code along with the two videos. The download includes the various stages of the build, so you can review your changes if you get stuck. Object orientation in practice part one Start by inspecting the code and ensure you understand the cow constructor. Simon also changes the brightnesses from a property to a local variable in the flying_saucer constructor. , make the beam method local. You will need to create a new variable that is equal to this. Simon calls his variable self. To allow the cow to be beamed up into the flying_saucer make you will need to make a new object called CowManager. Create an array of cows in the cow manager. This can be empty to begin with and local so it stays private. Add a draw and update method. Create a minCows variable to maintain a minimum number of cows in a cowManager. In the update method ensure the minimum number of cows is maintained. Also using a for loop call the walk method for each cow. Complete the draw method so it calls all the cows individual draw method. Update the sketch so it uses a new instance of CowManager correctly. Improve the update method of the CowManager so that cows can't leave the screen. Object orientation in practice part two In the second video Simon shows how the tractor beam of the flying saucer can 'capture a cow'. Switch to the cows_3 sketch from the download folder on this page. The levitateCows function has been written for you, as has the initial code to make it work. Update the code with a global array for multiple flying saucers called flyingSaucers Traverse the array in the sketches draw method to update the flying saucers each frame. Object orientation in practice In the preceding two videos, Simon described an example that builds upon the previous flying saucer examples. In the new starter, Simon has added a cow object. You can download the code here: T1.205 ZIP File Code along with the two videos. The download includes the various stages of the build, so you can review your changes if you get stuck. Object orientation in practice part one Start by inspecting the code and ensure you understand the cow constructor. Simon also changes the brightnesses from a property to a local variable in the flying_saucer constructor. , make the beam method local. You will need to create a new variable that is equal to this. Simon calls his variable self. To allow the cow to be beamed up into the flying_saucer make you will need to make a new object called CowManager. Create an array of cows in the cow manager. This can be empty to begin with and local so it stays private. Add a draw and update method. Create a minCows variable to maintain a minimum number of cows in a cowManager. In the update method ensure the minimum number of cows is maintained. Also using a for loop call the walk method for each cow. Complete the draw method so it calls all the cows individual draw method. Update the sketch so it uses a new instance of CowManager correctly. Improve the update method of the CowManager so that cows can't leave the screen. Object orientation in practice part two In the second video Simon shows how the tractor beam of the flying saucer can 'capture a cow'. Switch to the cows_3 sketch from the download folder on this page. The levitateCows function has been written for you, as has the initial code to make it work. Update the code with a global array for multiple flying saucers called flyingSaucers Traverse the array in the sketches draw method to update the flying saucers each frame. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue