# Objects in practice
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/065x6/objects-in-practice

In the preceding videos, Simon developed an example of objects in practice, moving from a simple sketch to a more advanced implementation that demonstrates the principles of objects you have learnt so far. Objects in practice: Adapting the flying saucer sketch the application starter files. The download includes the various stages of the project. You can follow along coding as you go, however, if you get stuck you can always move to the next stage with the correct code: T1.202 ZIP File First, you are going to add variables and further functionality to the flying saucer sketch. the video closely, you will need to complete the following steps. Replace the magic numbers with variables. You will need to create a flying_suacer_x and flying_saucer_y variable. Set these values as Simon describes in the setup function and use these new variables in place of the numbers in the draw function. Add the hover animation using the random() function. Remove more magic numbers by creating a flying_saucer_width variable. Add some lights to the flying saucer using a for loop to place ellipses on the drawing of the flying saucer Add a final variable called flying_saucer_height. , we are going to convert the flying saucer variables to an object. Create a new variable called flying_saucer and add properties for x, y, height and width. Use the find and replace technique to quickly adapt the code. Clean up the sketch, remove the unwanted variables and declarations. Simon adds some additional properties to the object here. window_width, window_height, base_height, num_lights brightnesses. Set brightnesses to be an empty array. See if you can make these work. ing this you can add the for loop to populate the brightnesses array inside the flying_saucer object. Also, add the animation by adapting the for loop that draws the lights. Objects in practice: Completing the flying saucer sketch In the second video Simon extended the sketch from the previous video by adding methods. Start with your own implementation of the above sketch or the flyingsaucer_3 sketch from the download. Create a hover method in the object. Refactor the code to use this new method. You will need to use the this keyword to refer to the object properties. Create a beam method for the tractor beam. Initially, use the method to draw the tractor beam. Add the beam_on property to the flying_saucer object. Add the standard functions for keyPressed() and keyReleased(). and an if block around the method call to flying_saucer.beam. you will adapt the flying_saucerobject to a constructor function: Cut and paste the object code to the bottom of the sketch. Add the name for the constructor function. Update the properties from key value pairs to properties using the 'this.' at the start of the declaration. Update the methods to use 'this.' at the start of the decleration. Add an update the drawing code, replacing references to the flying_saucer object with 'this.' Now you can use this new constructor to make flying saucer objects. In setup use the new keyword to create a new flying saucer. Call the hover and draw methods of your new flying saucer object in the sketches draw function. Explore adding arguments to the constructor. Add arguments for the various properties. You can also try replacing some of the property values with random values. Create an array to store multiple flying saucers. Populate that array using a for loop. Update your drawing code to display all the flying saucers. Adapt your beam code for a better interaction. Objects in practice In the preceding videos, Simon developed an example of objects in practice, moving from a simple sketch to a more advanced implementation that demonstrates the principles of objects you have learnt so far. Objects in practice: Adapting the flying saucer sketch the application starter files. The download includes the various stages of the project. You can follow along coding as you go, however, if you get stuck you can always move to the next stage with the correct code: T1.202 ZIP File First, you are going to add variables and further functionality to the flying saucer sketch. the video closely, you will need to complete the following steps. Replace the magic numbers with variables. You will need to create a flying_suacer_x and flying_saucer_y variable. Set these values as Simon describes in the setup function and use these new variables in place of the numbers in the draw function. Add the hover animation using the random() function. Remove more magic numbers by creating a flying_saucer_width variable. Add some lights to the flying saucer using a for loop to place ellipses on the drawing of the flying saucer Add a final variable called flying_saucer_height. , we are going to convert the flying saucer variables to an object. Create a new variable called flying_saucer and add properties for x, y, height and width. Use the find and replace technique to quickly adapt the code. Clean up the sketch, remove the unwanted variables and declarations. Simon adds some additional properties to the object here. window_width, window_height, base_height, num_lights brightnesses. Set brightnesses to be an empty array. See if you can make these work. ing this you can add the for loop to populate the brightnesses array inside the flying_saucer object. Also, add the animation by adapting the for loop that draws the lights. Objects in practice: Completing the flying saucer sketch In the second video Simon extended the sketch from the previous video by adding methods. Start with your own implementation of the above sketch or the flyingsaucer_3 sketch from the download. Create a hover method in the object. Refactor the code to use this new method. You will need to use the this keyword to refer to the object properties. Create a beam method for the tractor beam. Initially, use the method to draw the tractor beam. Add the beam_on property to the flying_saucer object. Add the standard functions for keyPressed() and keyReleased(). and an if block around the method call to flying_saucer.beam. you will adapt the flying_saucerobject to a constructor function: Cut and paste the object code to the bottom of the sketch. Add the name for the constructor function. Update the properties from key value pairs to properties using the 'this.' at the start of the declaration. Update the methods to use 'this.' at the start of the decleration. Add an update the drawing code, replacing references to the flying_saucer object with 'this.' Now you can use this new constructor to make flying saucer objects. In setup use the new keyword to create a new flying saucer. Call the hover and draw methods of your new flying saucer object in the sketches draw function. Explore adding arguments to the constructor. Add arguments for the various properties. You can also try replacing some of the property values with random values. Create an array to store multiple flying saucers. Populate that array using a for loop. Update your drawing code to display all the flying saucers. Adapt your beam code for a better interaction. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue