# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/Fing8/module-syllabus

/ 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM1010 Introduction to Programming II Course Description This course is aimed at novice programmers who have learnt basic programming techniques in JavaScript and p5.js through Introduction to Programming I . The course builds on this knowledge by developing learners' ability to combine short segments of code to create larger projects. Learners will begin by developing their knowledge of object - oriented programming through learning about principles such as encapsulation and abstraction. The module centres around three case study applications, a data visualiser, a drawing app, and a music visualiser. The course materials outline the structure of each and guides learners to build their own features for the apps. Finally, learners will cho ose one of these case studies to extend it with their own functionality. Through this work learners will understand how to organise, plan and evaluate their code. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Write and evolve larger coding examples 2. Understand the structure of a program 3. Program using the fundamentals of object orientation 4. Use further coding techniques to enhance readability, complexity and efficiency 5. Test and debug larger programs 6. Have a broad knowledge of the profession of Programming Textbook and Readings There is no textbook required for this course. Listed below are some books to supplement some of the material covered in this course : • Getting Started with p5.js: Making Interactive Graphics in JavaScript and Processing by Mccarthy, L., Reas, C. and Fry, B. (2016): Maker Media, Inc. • The Pragmatic Programmer: Your Journey to Mastery by Thomas, D. and Hunt, A . (2020): Addison - Wesley. • Coders at Work: Reflections on the Craft of Programming by Peter Seibel (2009) : Apress Module syllabus / 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM1010 Introduction to Programming II Course Description This course is aimed at novice programmers who have learnt basic programming techniques in JavaScript and p5.js through Introduction to Programming I . The course builds on this knowledge by developing learners' ability to combine short segments of code to create larger projects. Learners will begin by developing their knowledge of object - oriented programming through learning about principles such as encapsulation and abstraction. The module centres around three case study applications, a data visualiser, a drawing app, and a music visualiser. The course materials outline the structure of each and guides learners to build their own features for the apps. Finally, learners will cho ose one of these case studies to extend it with their own functionality. Through this work learners will understand how to organise, plan and evaluate their code. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Write and evolve larger coding examples 2. Understand the structure of a program 3. Program using the fundamentals of object orientation 4. Use further coding techniques to enhance readability, complexity and efficiency 5. Test and debug larger programs 6. Have a broad knowledge of the profession of Programming Textbook and Readings There is no textbook required for this course. Listed below are some books to supplement some of the material covered in this course : • Getting Started with p5.js: Making Interactive Graphics in JavaScript and Processing by Mccarthy, L., Reas, C. and Fry, B. (2016): Maker Media, Inc. • The Pragmatic Programmer: Your Journey to Mastery by Thomas, D. and Hunt, A . (2020): Addison - Wesley. • Coders at Work: Reflections on the Craft of Programming by Peter Seibel (2009) : Apress Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue