# Hack it: Fisherman's tales
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/AgjH9/hack-it-fishermans-tales

In this example we are going to track two objects of the same colour in a video stream and display an image between them. Warning: Remember to use Bracket’s live view to view your sketch. Loading images will not work when the html is viewed independently in the browser. Steps to complete Open the colorTrackingWithBlobs example shown in class and download the salmon image attached in this exercise. Find two objects in your home or office that have the same colour, ideally something relatively unique (not black or white). You'll be holding these two objects in front of the webcam while running the colorTrackingWithBlobs example. In the bottom of the draw() function there is a for loop which loops over the blobs and draws them on the screen. Instead of calling the show() function on each blob, simply get the minx, miny of the first blob and use them to draw the salmon where your hand is when holding only one object. If other blobs appear, play a bit with the threshold and/or get different objects. Remember, you need at least two entries in the blobs array otherwise if you try to access something in blobs[1] it will make your program crash. Get the minx, miny of the second blob, calculate the distance from the first blob’s points and use that to set how big the fish should be. If done right the salmon should be drawn dynamically between your hands when holding the second object. Note: Salmon image is in the public domain. Source: https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=283382&picture=fish-salmon-vintage-art Hack it: Fisherman's tales In this example we are going to track two objects of the same colour in a video stream and display an image between them. Warning: Remember to use Bracket’s live view to view your sketch. Loading images will not work when the html is viewed independently in the browser. Steps to complete Open the colorTrackingWithBlobs example shown in class and download the salmon image attached in this exercise. Find two objects in your home or office that have the same colour, ideally something relatively unique (not black or white). You'll be holding these two objects in front of the webcam while running the colorTrackingWithBlobs example. In the bottom of the draw() function there is a for loop which loops over the blobs and draws them on the screen. Instead of calling the show() function on each blob, simply get the minx, miny of the first blob and use them to draw the salmon where your hand is when holding only one object. If other blobs appear, play a bit with the threshold and/or get different objects. Remember, you need at least two entries in the blobs array otherwise if you try to access something in blobs[1] it will make your program crash. Get the minx, miny of the second blob, calculate the distance from the first blob’s points and use that to set how big the fish should be. If done right the salmon should be drawn dynamically between your hands when holding the second object. Note: Salmon image is in the public domain. Source: https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=283382&picture=fish-salmon-vintage-art Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue