# Unethical computer systems – case studies
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/0usTs/unethical-computer-systems-case-studies

Before attempting the quiz on the next page, familiarise yourself with these examples of unethical computer systems. Cambridge Analytica and Facebook data scandal This scandal involved the harvesting of personal data from millions of Facebook users without their consent, raising concerns about privacy and data misuse. Cadwalladr, C. and E. Graham-Harrison ‘ Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach ’, The Guardian (2018). Algorithmic bias in criminal justice This article discusses how algorithms used in the criminal justice system can perpetuate existing biases, leading to unfair outcomes for certain groups. Bembeneck, E., R, Nissan and Z. Obermeyer ‘ To stop algorithmic bias, we first have to define it ’, The Brookings Institution (2021). Predatory lending apps This article highlights how some lending apps exploit vulnerable individuals with high-interest rates and deceptive practices. Mukharji, A. ‘ The ‘saviour’ loan apps that trapped pandemics-struck Indians ’, BBC News (2021). If any of the above links are broken please let us know via the Student Portal. Unethical computer systems – case studies Before attempting the quiz on the next page, familiarise yourself with these examples of unethical computer systems. Cambridge Analytica and Facebook data scandal This scandal involved the harvesting of personal data from millions of Facebook users without their consent, raising concerns about privacy and data misuse. Cadwalladr, C. and E. Graham-Harrison ‘ Revealed: 50 million Facebook profiles harvested for Cambridge Analytica in major data breach ’, The Guardian (2018). Algorithmic bias in criminal justice This article discusses how algorithms used in the criminal justice system can perpetuate existing biases, leading to unfair outcomes for certain groups. Bembeneck, E., R, Nissan and Z. Obermeyer ‘ To stop algorithmic bias, we first have to define it ’, The Brookings Institution (2021). Predatory lending apps This article highlights how some lending apps exploit vulnerable individuals with high-interest rates and deceptive practices. Mukharji, A. ‘ The ‘saviour’ loan apps that trapped pandemics-struck Indians ’, BBC News (2021). If any of the above links are broken please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue