# Technical information and tools used in this module
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/71t94/technical-information-and-tools-used-in-this-module

Glossary We have provided a short glossary below which describes the core technologies we will use during the course. We will explain these technologies in more depth during the course, but this should serve as a quick reference. Source code of all examples The source code of all examples demonstrated each week in class will be provided in the Weekly Source Code section of each week. Feel free to download and study the source code provided. p5.js p5.js is a JavaScript library which aims to make coding accessible for artists, designers, educators and beginners, running in the context of the web browser. Using the metaphor of a software sketchbook, p5.js has a full set of drawing functionality. However, you are not limited to your drawing canvas, you can think of your whole browser page as your sketch! For this, p5.js has add-on libraries that make it easy to interact with other HTML5 objects, including text, input, video, webcam and sound. Whenever you code an example from scratch or want to replicate what is shown in the videos please use this empty example to ensure that the p5js library is compatible with the code demonstrated. emptyExample Text Editor We used Brackets as the text editor at the time of filming, therefore it is showcased across the module. Currently, Brackets is a discontinued editor which is (only) available via github. It will no longer be maintained or improved by Adobe, but it has been open sourced and is still available. You could either download and use Brackets or select another text editor such as Visual Studio Code. Brackets can be found on Adobe’s archived github repo , and this is the release you could use: https://github.com/adobe/brackets/releases/tag/release-1.14.2 Brackets is a lightweight, yet powerful, modern text editor. Further information: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brackets_(text_editor) If you would prefer to use another text editor, Brackets users are encouraged to switch to Visual Studio Code which is a free code editor built on open source. Visual Studio Code has a Brackets extension pack that will give you a live server similar to live preview in Brackets. Use this link to download Visual Studio Code for Windows, Mac or Linux: https://code.visualstudio.com/ The Visual Studio Code Brackets extension, after installing the package you can check your code in a browser using the "Go Live" button: https://code.visualstudio.com/migrate-from-brackets Installing Brackets Extension for Visual Studio Code: Other libraries Occasionally we will use other libraries such as matter.js or computer vision libraries. We will show you in videos how to embed these into your applications. Technical information and tools used in this module Glossary We have provided a short glossary below which describes the core technologies we will use during the course. We will explain these technologies in more depth during the course, but this should serve as a quick reference. Source code of all examples The source code of all examples demonstrated each week in class will be provided in the Weekly Source Code section of each week. Feel free to download and study the source code provided. p5.js p5.js is a JavaScript library which aims to make coding accessible for artists, designers, educators and beginners, running in the context of the web browser. Using the metaphor of a software sketchbook, p5.js has a full set of drawing functionality. However, you are not limited to your drawing canvas, you can think of your whole browser page as your sketch! For this, p5.js has add-on libraries that make it easy to interact with other HTML5 objects, including text, input, video, webcam and sound. Whenever you code an example from scratch or want to replicate what is shown in the videos please use this empty example to ensure that the p5js library is compatible with the code demonstrated. emptyExample Text Editor We used Brackets as the text editor at the time of filming, therefore it is showcased across the module. Currently, Brackets is a discontinued editor which is (only) available via github. It will no longer be maintained or improved by Adobe, but it has been open sourced and is still available. You could either download and use Brackets or select another text editor such as Visual Studio Code. Brackets can be found on Adobe’s archived github repo , and this is the release you could use: https://github.com/adobe/brackets/releases/tag/release-1.14.2 Brackets is a lightweight, yet powerful, modern text editor. Further information: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brackets_(text_editor) If you would prefer to use another text editor, Brackets users are encouraged to switch to Visual Studio Code which is a free code editor built on open source. Visual Studio Code has a Brackets extension pack that will give you a live server similar to live preview in Brackets. Use this link to download Visual Studio Code for Windows, Mac or Linux: https://code.visualstudio.com/ The Visual Studio Code Brackets extension, after installing the package you can check your code in a browser using the "Go Live" button: https://code.visualstudio.com/migrate-from-brackets Installing Brackets Extension for Visual Studio Code: Other libraries Occasionally we will use other libraries such as matter.js or computer vision libraries. We will show you in videos how to embed these into your applications. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue