# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/MlqiM/module-syllabus

/ 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2030 Graphics Programming Module Description This module is aimed at programmers that have learned the basics of programming using the p5.js programming frameworks through Introduction to Programming part one. Learners will begin by looking into building their own physics engine for animating elements on the screen, using vectors and forces. Having learned the basics of such a system they will then look into an off - the - shelf physics library. After that, learners will look into the principles of procedural generation of graphics and will hear first - h and accounts from a game designer and a computational artist. In the second part of the module attention is shifted to 3D graphics at first before looking deeper into the basic elements of images, namely pixels. Once learners have grasped the basics of pixel reading and manipulation, they will use these techniques in combination with others to programme computer vision applications and image processing filters. The second part of the module finishes with an interview with an accomplished artist - hacker who uses computer vision techniques for a lot of his work. Learners get to practice all the above in multiple, weekly, fun, programming exercises and their knowledge is tested through engaging programming assignments and quizzes. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Manipulate numerical representations of visual media 2. Explain the basic mathematical and theoretical principles of visual computing 3. Write basic but complete graphics software systems 4. Apply filters on images in order to transform them for processing in computer vision scenarios 5. Explain the fundamental tenets of computer vision and write code that processes images to make intelligent assertions about their content 6. Select and use software libraries for software developmen t Textbook and Readings Specific essential readings for each week from the following list are included in the Readings page for each week. During each week, your instructor will post links of interest and things he would like you to explore. There is no official textbook or readings as most of the module is very practical and video based. Module syllabus / 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2030 Graphics Programming Module Description This module is aimed at programmers that have learned the basics of programming using the p5.js programming frameworks through Introduction to Programming part one. Learners will begin by looking into building their own physics engine for animating elements on the screen, using vectors and forces. Having learned the basics of such a system they will then look into an off - the - shelf physics library. After that, learners will look into the principles of procedural generation of graphics and will hear first - h and accounts from a game designer and a computational artist. In the second part of the module attention is shifted to 3D graphics at first before looking deeper into the basic elements of images, namely pixels. Once learners have grasped the basics of pixel reading and manipulation, they will use these techniques in combination with others to programme computer vision applications and image processing filters. The second part of the module finishes with an interview with an accomplished artist - hacker who uses computer vision techniques for a lot of his work. Learners get to practice all the above in multiple, weekly, fun, programming exercises and their knowledge is tested through engaging programming assignments and quizzes. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Manipulate numerical representations of visual media 2. Explain the basic mathematical and theoretical principles of visual computing 3. Write basic but complete graphics software systems 4. Apply filters on images in order to transform them for processing in computer vision scenarios 5. Explain the fundamental tenets of computer vision and write code that processes images to make intelligent assertions about their content 6. Select and use software libraries for software developmen t Textbook and Readings Specific essential readings for each week from the following list are included in the Readings page for each week. During each week, your instructor will post links of interest and things he would like you to explore. There is no official textbook or readings as most of the module is very practical and video based. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue