# Further reading: References to python functions to read CS and JSON
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2015-programming-with-data/supplement/5GU1o/further-reading-references-to-python-functions-to-read-cs-and-json

Python provides many different ways of reading files, however this particular set of functions in Pandas are particularly useful. It will be good to be familiarise yourself with them! We have provided these to you as an accessible resource for the topic – but they are not compulsory reading. The libraries are also provided to help you get used to handling documentation to solve tasks, which is a really important skill as a programmer. You will often be working on unfamiliar libraries, so being able to jump in and figure things out is an invaluable skill. These are the reading resources that you can make use of while studying this topic: Python ‘ csv – CSV file reading and writing ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.read_csv ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.DataFrame.to_csv ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.read_json ’ (n.d.). If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Further reading: References to python functions to read CS and JSON Python provides many different ways of reading files, however this particular set of functions in Pandas are particularly useful. It will be good to be familiarise yourself with them! We have provided these to you as an accessible resource for the topic – but they are not compulsory reading. The libraries are also provided to help you get used to handling documentation to solve tasks, which is a really important skill as a programmer. You will often be working on unfamiliar libraries, so being able to jump in and figure things out is an invaluable skill. These are the reading resources that you can make use of while studying this topic: Python ‘ csv – CSV file reading and writing ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.read_csv ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.DataFrame.to_csv ’ (n.d.). pandas ‘ pandas.read_json ’ (n.d.). If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue