# Further reading for this topic
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/WhMuJ/further-reading-for-this-topic

When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about any of the content covered, we recommend the following readings. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. To learn more about access control, read the following sections: Elmasri and Navathe, Chapter 30, Database security , section 30.2, Discretionary access control based on granting and revoking privileges and section 30.3, Mandatory access control and role-based access control for multilevel security. To learn more about injection, read the following sections: Elmasri and Navathe,Chapter 30, Database security , section 30.4 SQL injection. Do you remember the issue that I posed at the end of the lecture on security of data in storage? When database credentials or other sensitive information is embedded in code, it can pose a serious risk. Take a look at the dotenv Node.js package to see one solution to this problem. Read about sanitisationin Node.js using the express-sanitizer module . Read about validation in Node.js using the express-validator module . Further reading for this topic When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about any of the content covered, we recommend the following readings. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. To learn more about access control, read the following sections: Elmasri and Navathe, Chapter 30, Database security , section 30.2, Discretionary access control based on granting and revoking privileges and section 30.3, Mandatory access control and role-based access control for multilevel security. To learn more about injection, read the following sections: Elmasri and Navathe,Chapter 30, Database security , section 30.4 SQL injection. Do you remember the issue that I posed at the end of the lecture on security of data in storage? When database credentials or other sensitive information is embedded in code, it can pose a serious risk. Take a look at the dotenv Node.js package to see one solution to this problem. Read about sanitisationin Node.js using the express-sanitizer module . Read about validation in Node.js using the express-validator module . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue