# Getting started in this module
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/bLWVB/getting-started-in-this-module

A very warm welcome to this module from us all. We suggest you get started by familiarising yourself with the module and your tasks in the forthcoming weeks and getting to know each other. We advise you to do the following. Read the module syllabus and watch the module introduction video to find out what this module is all about. Review your learning outcomes (found in the syllabus) for a summary of the key knowledge and skills you should be able to demonstrate after completing this module. Have a look at the assessment part of the module syllabus to find out how you can pass this module. If this is your first module or you want to deepen your understanding of the Coursera platform and discover tools for success, check out the Orientation course . You will use three important communication tools throughout the program: discussion forums, Slack and Zoom. Find out more about these tools in your Orientation course . Say 'Hello' to your classmates in the discussion forum ‘Getting to know each other’. Before diving into the forums, it's helpful to review the guidelines on how to use discussion forums which you find on your Orientation course and to follow the essential rules. Find out more about the live webinars in your Orientation course. Find more about the Online Library in your Orientation course. The Online Library tutorial provides a wealth of information and resources to help you in your studies. In your Orientation course, you will be introduced to Studiosity, a new online service the University is piloting to support your academic writing. This resource offers additional help with any topics where you may need a refresher during your studies. Whether you are at the start of your career journey (career starter), already have work-based experience (career developer), or are looking to change your career (career changer), The University of London Careers Service is here to help all students wherever you are in your career journey and wherever you are based in the world. Read more about enhancing your career prospects and what the University of London’s Career Service provides on your Orientation course . Aligning your study with your career goals will keep you motivated and on track to succeed. You can start now by taking a look at our Careers Connect platform and attending the live targeted BSc Computer Science careers webinars scheduled throughout the programme. In the video on the following page, we share some insights on how you might shift your career thinking as a career developer. If you want to explore more on this topic, check out our career developer resources here. We hope you enjoy this module and we’re really looking forward to seeing your contributions as we progress. Best wishes from the module team. Lesson 1.0 Introduction to the course Video: Video Introduction to discrete mathematics . Duration: 4 minutes 4 min Reading: Reading Discrete Mathematics syllabus . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Getting started in this module . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Video: Video Careers video . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Discussion Prompt: What do you know about sets? . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Lesson 1.1 Introduction to set theory Getting started in this module A very warm welcome to this module from us all. We suggest you get started by familiarising yourself with the module and your tasks in the forthcoming weeks and getting to know each other. We advise you to do the following. Read the module syllabus and watch the module introduction video to find out what this module is all about. Review your learning outcomes (found in the syllabus) for a summary of the key knowledge and skills you should be able to demonstrate after completing this module. Have a look at the assessment part of the module syllabus to find out how you can pass this module. If this is your first module or you want to deepen your understanding of the Coursera platform and discover tools for success, check out the Orientation course . You will use three important communication tools throughout the program: discussion forums, Slack and Zoom. Find out more about these tools in your Orientation course . Say 'Hello' to your classmates in the discussion forum ‘Getting to know each other’. Before diving into the forums, it's helpful to review the guidelines on how to use discussion forums which you find on your Orientation course and to follow the essential rules. Find out more about the live webinars in your Orientation course. Find more about the Online Library in your Orientation course. The Online Library tutorial provides a wealth of information and resources to help you in your studies. In your Orientation course, you will be introduced to Studiosity, a new online service the University is piloting to support your academic writing. This resource offers additional help with any topics where you may need a refresher during your studies. Whether you are at the start of your career journey (career starter), already have work-based experience (career developer), or are looking to change your career (career changer), The University of London Careers Service is here to help all students wherever you are in your career journey and wherever you are based in the world. Read more about enhancing your career prospects and what the University of London’s Career Service provides on your Orientation course . Aligning your study with your career goals will keep you motivated and on track to succeed. You can start now by taking a look at our Careers Connect platform and attending the live targeted BSc Computer Science careers webinars scheduled throughout the programme. In the video on the following page, we share some insights on how you might shift your career thinking as a career developer. If you want to explore more on this topic, check out our career developer resources here. We hope you enjoy this module and we’re really looking forward to seeing your contributions as we progress. Best wishes from the module team. Go to next item Completed Dislike Report an issue