# SolarWinds hack: an in-depth analysis and countermeasures
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/2yw2b/solarwinds-hack-an-in-depth-analysis-and-countermeasures

The following article examines the 2020 SolarWinds supply-chain compromise, in which attackers inserted the SUNBURST backdoor into signed Orion software updates. This malware was then distributed to thousands of customers via a trusted update channel. Read: Alkhadra, R., J. Abuzaid, M. AlShammari and N. Mohammad ‘Solar Winds hack: In-depth analysis and countermeasures’ in 2021 12th International Conference on Computing Communication and Networking Technologies (ICCCNT). (New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 2021) pp.1-7. for the article in the Online Library . After you’ve read the article, write a short summary that answers the following questions. How did the breach happen? How did the attackers compromise SolarWinds’ systems and insert the SUNBURST backdoor? Who received the malicious update and why was the impact so widespread? How was the breach eventually detected and by whom? What were the consequences for SolarWinds, its customers and the wider industry? What does this case tell us about supply chain security, code signing and the need for additional safeguards? Use the reading as your main source but try to supplement it by reading at least one additional reputable source. SolarWinds hack: an in-depth analysis and countermeasures The following article examines the 2020 SolarWinds supply-chain compromise, in which attackers inserted the SUNBURST backdoor into signed Orion software updates. This malware was then distributed to thousands of customers via a trusted update channel. Read: Alkhadra, R., J. Abuzaid, M. AlShammari and N. Mohammad ‘Solar Winds hack: In-depth analysis and countermeasures’ in 2021 12th International Conference on Computing Communication and Networking Technologies (ICCCNT). (New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 2021) pp.1-7. for the article in the Online Library . After you’ve read the article, write a short summary that answers the following questions. How did the breach happen? How did the attackers compromise SolarWinds’ systems and insert the SUNBURST backdoor? Who received the malicious update and why was the impact so widespread? How was the breach eventually detected and by whom? What were the consequences for SolarWinds, its customers and the wider industry? What does this case tell us about supply chain security, code signing and the need for additional safeguards? Use the reading as your main source but try to supplement it by reading at least one additional reputable source. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue