# Topic 10 evaluation
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/Ejlki/topic-10-evaluation

Well done on your progress so far! As you reach then end of the module, now is a great time to pause and reflect on your learning. Doing so will not only help you consolidate what you’ve achieved but also prepare you to approach your coursework with confidence. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Here are some example questions. How confident am I in analysing why a breach occurred and proposing redesigns? Can I clearly communicate technical solutions in non-technical language? Your reflections should lead to an action plan – whether that’s setting aside extra study time, using more resources, asking questions in the forum or setting specific goals for improvement. Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. We hope you enjoyed this module. Topic 10 evaluation Well done on your progress so far! As you reach then end of the module, now is a great time to pause and reflect on your learning. Doing so will not only help you consolidate what you’ve achieved but also prepare you to approach your coursework with confidence. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Here are some example questions. How confident am I in analysing why a breach occurred and proposing redesigns? Can I clearly communicate technical solutions in non-technical language? Your reflections should lead to an action plan – whether that’s setting aside extra study time, using more resources, asking questions in the forum or setting specific goals for improvement. Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. We hope you enjoyed this module. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue