# Lab environment instructions
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/OaNzS/lab-environment-instructions

Harbian: security auditing in Linux In this activity, we are going to run a security audit in Linux using Harbian. Set up your environment We have set up a lab environment for you to work on the Coursera platform. It comes with Ubuntu 18.05.5 and an integrated terminal, therefore ready for you to run your security check commands. For this lab, we do not support development on your local machine as setting up a development environment is beyond the scope of this lab. We advise you to use the Coursera labs environment. Working in the Coursera lab environment The Coursera lab environment has already been configured for you with all the essentials to complete this activity. The lab is integrated also with Visual Studio Code, an extremely popular code editor optimised for building and debugging modern web and cloud applications. Start the lab environment application It is simple to launch a lab exercise. You only need to click on the button 'Start' below the activity title to enter a lab environment. Let’s explore this lab activity. Go ahead and click on the 'Start' button! Figure 1: Coursera 'Start' button The Lab environment application The lab environment application may take some time to load and you will be prompted with the following animation: Figure 2: Coursera loading screen Just wait a few seconds for your lab activity to start. It should not take longer than 30 seconds. If you experience any issues, please load the activity again. Once the application loads, you will see an instance of Visual Studio Code IDE as shown below: Figure 3: Visual Studio Code editor The 'Welcome' page illustrates most of the features to get you started with the environment. For now you can close the 'Welcome' tab by clicking on the X icon next to the tab name as we will explore the main sections together. The 'Welcome' page does not always appear so do not worry as it will not make any difference in the way the IDE works. Note about the integrated terminal The integrated terminal panel is normally hidden by default in Visual Studio Code and you need to manually enable it. Click the 'View' tab on the top navigation bar and then click the 'Terminal' tab to enable the panel window like shown below: Figure 4: Visual Studio Code Terminal Final touches You are now set to work in the Coursera lab environment. Just few other things before you begin this exercise: You can create, edit and delete files and folders in the Side Bar section. The exercise path is /home/coder/project/, open the Terminal and type cd/home/coder/project/ if you get lost. Lab environment instructions Harbian: security auditing in Linux In this activity, we are going to run a security audit in Linux using Harbian. Set up your environment We have set up a lab environment for you to work on the Coursera platform. It comes with Ubuntu 18.05.5 and an integrated terminal, therefore ready for you to run your security check commands. For this lab, we do not support development on your local machine as setting up a development environment is beyond the scope of this lab. We advise you to use the Coursera labs environment. Working in the Coursera lab environment The Coursera lab environment has already been configured for you with all the essentials to complete this activity. The lab is integrated also with Visual Studio Code, an extremely popular code editor optimised for building and debugging modern web and cloud applications. Start the lab environment application It is simple to launch a lab exercise. You only need to click on the button 'Start' below the activity title to enter a lab environment. Let’s explore this lab activity. Go ahead and click on the 'Start' button! Figure 1: Coursera 'Start' button The Lab environment application The lab environment application may take some time to load and you will be prompted with the following animation: Figure 2: Coursera loading screen Just wait a few seconds for your lab activity to start. It should not take longer than 30 seconds. If you experience any issues, please load the activity again. Once the application loads, you will see an instance of Visual Studio Code IDE as shown below: Figure 3: Visual Studio Code editor The 'Welcome' page illustrates most of the features to get you started with the environment. For now you can close the 'Welcome' tab by clicking on the X icon next to the tab name as we will explore the main sections together. The 'Welcome' page does not always appear so do not worry as it will not make any difference in the way the IDE works. Note about the integrated terminal The integrated terminal panel is normally hidden by default in Visual Studio Code and you need to manually enable it. Click the 'View' tab on the top navigation bar and then click the 'Terminal' tab to enable the panel window like shown below: Figure 4: Visual Studio Code Terminal Final touches You are now set to work in the Coursera lab environment. Just few other things before you begin this exercise: You can create, edit and delete files and folders in the Side Bar section. The exercise path is /home/coder/project/, open the Terminal and type cd/home/coder/project/ if you get lost. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue