# Hack it: Mouse patterns
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/2krXL/hack-it-mouse-patterns

In this example, we're replacing the ball which is chasing the mouse and instead we're tracing a line under an imaginary ball. You'll need to draw a line between the location of the ball object (aka location) as well and its location in the previous frame (aka prevLocation). Steps to complete Step 1: Start from the followingTheMouse example provided in this week's code and modify it by adding this to the constructor: 1 2 3 var randomX = width/2+random(-100,100); var randomY = height/2+random(-100,100); this.prevLocation = new createVector(randomX, randomY); Also, within the constructor set the value of this.location equal to randomX and randomY. This will make sure that the initial values of the lines are going to be at a random offset from the center. Step 2: Move the background(0) command from the draw function to the setup() so that the canvas is not updated and the lines we're drawing remain on the black canvas. Step 3: Remove all the code from Ball() class' draw() function and set the stroke to white. Then using the line() command, draw a line between the location and prevLocation vectors. Remember you'll need to look up the x and y components of the respective vectors. Before leaving the draw() function copy the contents of the location vector into the prevLocation vector using the copy command . If you've done things right then you should see a line drawn on the canvas by an agent following your mouse. Step 4: Remove the edge() function completely, we don't mind if the agent following us goes off screen before it enters again. This will make for more natural shapes. Remove the call of the edge function from the run() function as well. Step 5: Rename the ball variable as balls and initialise it as an array. Use a for loop to push 100 balls on it. Within the draw() function use a for loop to call the run() command on each of the balls. If you've done things right you should see patterns like the above. Further things to explore: play with the strokeWeight() play with the maxVelocity variable. How does it affect the patterns that emerge? use different colors and transparencies make your sketch unique. Hack it: Mouse patterns In this example, we're replacing the ball which is chasing the mouse and instead we're tracing a line under an imaginary ball. You'll need to draw a line between the location of the ball object (aka location) as well and its location in the previous frame (aka prevLocation). Steps to complete Step 1: Start from the followingTheMouse example provided in this week's code and modify it by adding this to the constructor: 1 2 3 var randomX = width/2+random(-100,100); var randomY = height/2+random(-100,100); this.prevLocation = new createVector(randomX, randomY); Also, within the constructor set the value of this.location equal to randomX and randomY. This will make sure that the initial values of the lines are going to be at a random offset from the center. Step 2: Move the background(0) command from the draw function to the setup() so that the canvas is not updated and the lines we're drawing remain on the black canvas. Step 3: Remove all the code from Ball() class' draw() function and set the stroke to white. Then using the line() command, draw a line between the location and prevLocation vectors. Remember you'll need to look up the x and y components of the respective vectors. Before leaving the draw() function copy the contents of the location vector into the prevLocation vector using the copy command . If you've done things right then you should see a line drawn on the canvas by an agent following your mouse. Step 4: Remove the edge() function completely, we don't mind if the agent following us goes off screen before it enters again. This will make for more natural shapes. Remove the call of the edge function from the run() function as well. Step 5: Rename the ball variable as balls and initialise it as an array. Use a for loop to push 100 balls on it. Within the draw() function use a for loop to call the run() command on each of the balls. If you've done things right you should see patterns like the above. Further things to explore: play with the strokeWeight() play with the maxVelocity variable. How does it affect the patterns that emerge? use different colors and transparencies make your sketch unique. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue