# Example exam papers
Reading•
. Duration: 2 hours
2h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/DoVoz/example-exam-papers

Here are two examples of previous exam papers for you to practice on. They are in the same format and have the same type of questions you will sit. The first paper is based on an exam sat by students on campus at Goldsmiths, University of London and the second one was sat by University of London Worldwide students in September 2019. You can use them to practice taking the exam yourself. I would recommend taking it under timed conditions (2 hours) so see how you do. There are no answers on the papers. If you are unsure of the correct answer, I want you to go back to that section of the course and check for yourself, that is a key part of the learning that you will be able to do with this exam paper. HCW_sample.pdf PDF File HCW_Exam_Sept_2019.pdf PDF File Video: Video Course summary . Duration: 4 minutes 4 min Practice Assignment: Revision Quiz 1 . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Discussion Prompt: Notional machine of an application . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Discussion Prompt: Test each other . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Practice Assignment: Revision Quiz 2 . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Discussion Prompt: Notional machine for a website . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Practice Assignment: Revision Quiz 3 Graded Assignment: Revision Quiz 4 Reading: Reading Example exam papers . Duration: 2 hours 2h Ungraded Plugin: CPU EXAMPLE . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Reading: Reading Final exam key concepts checklist . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Final exam key concepts review . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: Practice final exam . Duration: 1 hour 1h Example exam papers Here are two examples of previous exam papers for you to practice on. They are in the same format and have the same type of questions you will sit. The first paper is based on an exam sat by students on campus at Goldsmiths, University of London and the second one was sat by University of London Worldwide students in September 2019. You can use them to practice taking the exam yourself. I would recommend taking it under timed conditions (2 hours) so see how you do. There are no answers on the papers. If you are unsure of the correct answer, I want you to go back to that section of the course and check for yourself, that is a key part of the learning that you will be able to do with this exam paper. HCW_sample.pdf PDF File HCW_Exam_Sept_2019.pdf PDF File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue