# Study guide
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/r0eKb/study-guide

In preparation for the final exam, make sure that you that have completed all the resources and lab activities in this module. In preparation for the exam, review the learning outcomes and consider how proficient you feel in each of them. How well do you understand the concepts in the learning outcomes? Do you feel confident answering questions about these concepts? Identify any areas that you don’t feel confident in. In the ‘Resources’ section, you will also find some past exam papers. Make sure that you familiarise yourself with the structure of the exam. Use these past exam papers as practice exams to test your knowledge. If there are any questions that you struggle with, add these to the list of areas that you don’t feel confident in and consider how you can improve. Go back to the week. Rewatch the lectures and reread the essential readings, then re-attempt the quizzes and exercises. Seek out additional resources that will help you achieve the learning outcomes as part of your independent learning. Good luck with your exam! Revision checklist Web applications Three tier architecture Mechanism of a web request HTTP request and response HTTP vs HTTPS GET and POST HTTP methods Stateless/stateful services Separation of concerns (SoC) Creating web applications with Node.js, Express and EJS Creating web forms: req. query vs req. body Databases Relational database concepts Tables, fields Relationship: primary key (PK) and foreign key (FK) Relationships: one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many Relationships: join tables Entity relationship (ER) diagrams using crows-feet notation SQL basic operations: CREATE, INSERT, SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE SQL JOINs: left, right, inner, outer SQL aggregations: SUM, COUNT, MIN, MAX, GROUP BY SQL sorting: ORDER BY Advanced SQL: nested selects Security Security threats and risks Data in storage vs data in motion Encryption: symmetric vs asymmetric Password hashing and salting Authentication and authorisation Validation and sanitisation Networking Packet switching TCP/IP model TCP/IP layers: application, transport, network, link, physical Protocols operating at each layer Comparison of TCP/IP model with OSI reference model Three-way handshake. Study guide In preparation for the final exam, make sure that you that have completed all the resources and lab activities in this module. In preparation for the exam, review the learning outcomes and consider how proficient you feel in each of them. How well do you understand the concepts in the learning outcomes? Do you feel confident answering questions about these concepts? Identify any areas that you don’t feel confident in. In the ‘Resources’ section, you will also find some past exam papers. Make sure that you familiarise yourself with the structure of the exam. Use these past exam papers as practice exams to test your knowledge. If there are any questions that you struggle with, add these to the list of areas that you don’t feel confident in and consider how you can improve. Go back to the week. Rewatch the lectures and reread the essential readings, then re-attempt the quizzes and exercises. Seek out additional resources that will help you achieve the learning outcomes as part of your independent learning. Good luck with your exam! Revision checklist Web applications Three tier architecture Mechanism of a web request HTTP request and response HTTP vs HTTPS GET and POST HTTP methods Stateless/stateful services Separation of concerns (SoC) Creating web applications with Node.js, Express and EJS Creating web forms: req. query vs req. body Databases Relational database concepts Tables, fields Relationship: primary key (PK) and foreign key (FK) Relationships: one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many Relationships: join tables Entity relationship (ER) diagrams using crows-feet notation SQL basic operations: CREATE, INSERT, SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE SQL JOINs: left, right, inner, outer SQL aggregations: SUM, COUNT, MIN, MAX, GROUP BY SQL sorting: ORDER BY Advanced SQL: nested selects Security Security threats and risks Data in storage vs data in motion Encryption: symmetric vs asymmetric Password hashing and salting Authentication and authorisation Validation and sanitisation Networking Packet switching TCP/IP model TCP/IP layers: application, transport, network, link, physical Protocols operating at each layer Comparison of TCP/IP model with OSI reference model Three-way handshake. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue