# Topic 7 summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/7j8mn/topic-7-summary

In this seventh topic of the module, you have looked at advanced extensions to your projects. These have involved more complex usage of objects than we have seen previously. You have also been introduced to the log keeping format that we wish you to use until the end of the project. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have watched the videos on the extensions to the applications. If you have felt stuck with these, remember some of the techniques we have shown you to break down the code, for instance with a diagram, to help you understand its structure. You have attempted to implement the extensions either in isolation or by adding them to the template. You have reviewed material on object orientation if you have felt stuck with these new extensions. You have started to keep logs of your projects progress. You have also looked back at your time planning and thought about how the logs will help to keep on track. At this stage you should have a solid idea of where you are going with your project and be working on the extensions. Use the material from this topic to ensure you have an effective code structure. Topic 7 summary In this seventh topic of the module, you have looked at advanced extensions to your projects. These have involved more complex usage of objects than we have seen previously. You have also been introduced to the log keeping format that we wish you to use until the end of the project. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have watched the videos on the extensions to the applications. If you have felt stuck with these, remember some of the techniques we have shown you to break down the code, for instance with a diagram, to help you understand its structure. You have attempted to implement the extensions either in isolation or by adding them to the template. You have reviewed material on object orientation if you have felt stuck with these new extensions. You have started to keep logs of your projects progress. You have also looked back at your time planning and thought about how the logs will help to keep on track. At this stage you should have a solid idea of where you are going with your project and be working on the extensions. Use the material from this topic to ensure you have an effective code structure. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue