# Hack it: Software mirror
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/4VMKF/hack-it-software-mirror

softwarMirror-Template In this assignment we are going to be making our own software mirror, inspired by the work of Daniel Rozin. Daniel Rozin is an artist who specialises in software and mechanical mirrors. Have a look at his work here for more inspiration. A software mirror is a mirror that does not reflect exactly what it sees, but reads the information coming in from the camera and re-interprets it. In our case, we are going to be looping over the image, reading the brightness in a specific point and, depending on the brightness, replacing it with a specific arc. If the brightness is high a fuller "pie" is placed in that spot, like in the image below. If the brightness is low a small arc is placed in that spot, like in the image below. Steps to complete Start with the template attached. Please note the example will not run at first as there are sections missing. Fill in the bits missing in order to loop over the video image in increments of arcSize. At each point read the RGB channel values directly from the array and calculate the brightness. Save it in a variable called pixelBrightness so that the arc shape can be correctly formed. How about replacing the arc drawn with another graphics primitive to make your software mirror unique to you? Hack it: Software mirror softwarMirror-Template In this assignment we are going to be making our own software mirror, inspired by the work of Daniel Rozin. Daniel Rozin is an artist who specialises in software and mechanical mirrors. Have a look at his work here for more inspiration. A software mirror is a mirror that does not reflect exactly what it sees, but reads the information coming in from the camera and re-interprets it. In our case, we are going to be looping over the image, reading the brightness in a specific point and, depending on the brightness, replacing it with a specific arc. If the brightness is high a fuller "pie" is placed in that spot, like in the image below. If the brightness is low a small arc is placed in that spot, like in the image below. Steps to complete Start with the template attached. Please note the example will not run at first as there are sections missing. Fill in the bits missing in order to loop over the video image in increments of arcSize. At each point read the RGB channel values directly from the array and calculate the brightness. Save it in a variable called pixelBrightness so that the arc shape can be correctly formed. How about replacing the arc drawn with another graphics primitive to make your software mirror unique to you? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue