# Reflection on interview with the student
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/mLic6/reflection-on-interview-with-the-student

Now you have watched the interview with Simas, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Simas built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application or others? For instance: Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as changes to the initial visualisations and additional interactivity? Simas showed that animation can be an effective tool in data visualisation. How might you incorporate it into your designs? What would be required for implementing more complex object oriented structures in your application, such as the way Simas used constructor functions? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? Consider the following: What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Simas talked about the things he would do differently and to reflect on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of these things as part of the midterm or end-of-term assessments. Reflection on interview with the student Now you have watched the interview with Simas, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Simas built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application or others? For instance: Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as changes to the initial visualisations and additional interactivity? Simas showed that animation can be an effective tool in data visualisation. How might you incorporate it into your designs? What would be required for implementing more complex object oriented structures in your application, such as the way Simas used constructor functions? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? Consider the following: What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Simas talked about the things he would do differently and to reflect on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of these things as part of the midterm or end-of-term assessments. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue