# Topic 4 evaluation and summary
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/woKdp/topic-4-evaluation-and-summary

In this fourth topic of the module, you have been introduced to the final case study application, the data visualiser. You have also looked at the p5.js data object and methods, and have explored how data can be loaded into your programme and accessed. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have learnt the basics of loading and accessing data and have explored its implementation in p5.js. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the data visualiser application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the final ‘interview with the student’ video and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Topic 4 evaluation and summary In this fourth topic of the module, you have been introduced to the final case study application, the data visualiser. You have also looked at the p5.js data object and methods, and have explored how data can be loaded into your programme and accessed. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have learnt the basics of loading and accessing data and have explored its implementation in p5.js. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the data visualiser application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the final ‘interview with the student’ video and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue