# Types of cyber attacks and how they work
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 30 minutes
1h 30m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/zgirT/types-of-cyber-attacks-and-how-they-work

This peer-reviewed article offers a research-based overview of cyber-attack types, methods and defence. It builds on this week’s content by expanding on the classifications introduced in the NCSC reading and video and by introducing a more detailed academic perspective on emerging threat patterns. Read: Yuchong L. and L. Qinghui ‘ A comprehensive review study of cyber-attacks and cyber security: Emerging trends and recent developments ’, Energy Reports 7 2021, pp.8176–8186. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you’re reading, focus on: how the article classifies attack types, and how these compare to the video which examples or patterns help clarify distinctions (e.g. endpoint vs network threats) what trends or new challenges are highlighted what defence strategies are mentioned, and how are they linked to specific threats. Types of cyber attacks and how they work This peer-reviewed article offers a research-based overview of cyber-attack types, methods and defence. It builds on this week’s content by expanding on the classifications introduced in the NCSC reading and video and by introducing a more detailed academic perspective on emerging threat patterns. Read: Yuchong L. and L. Qinghui ‘ A comprehensive review study of cyber-attacks and cyber security: Emerging trends and recent developments ’, Energy Reports 7 2021, pp.8176–8186. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you’re reading, focus on: how the article classifies attack types, and how these compare to the video which examples or patterns help clarify distinctions (e.g. endpoint vs network threats) what trends or new challenges are highlighted what defence strategies are mentioned, and how are they linked to specific threats. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue