# Starting your studies
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min
Resume
. Click to resume

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/b4Mqb/starting-your-studies

1. Independent research This module features some independent research activities, which require you to conduct your own investigation using the internet generally, as well as our Online Library. Please complete the Online Library tutorial before the first peer review activity in the next week . You can also visit the Online Library's pages on the effective searching of databases and information skills . Please note that you log into the Online Library with the part of your Portal username before the @. For example, if your Portal username is ab123@london.ac.uk , enter ab123. We also recommend that you read our research checklist to help you identify appropriate internet resources. independent research checklist.pdf PDF File Use the skills you have learnt to search for interesting or useful resources, particularly in relation to computer security. You may wish to brush up your academic writing and critical thinking skills by doing some activities in the Core Study Skills course that might be helpful when you are required to write a report for peer review. 2. Starting your study journal As you complete the activities in this module, you may wish to record your work in a study journal. You will need to start your own journal, in a format of your choosing. You may prefer traditional pen and paper or an electronic version. This journal will help you to collate information, monitor progress and organise your notes. You can use it later for reference when writing coursework or revising for your exams. This is for your reference only and will not be assessed. Which format should you choose? Online documents are preferable to static documents as you will be able to access them from any computer – handy if you study in more than one place! You could use any of the following: Word doc, Google doc, OneNote, a personal blog, Evernote or any other document of your choice. Study journal entries often include: collating links, articles and references recording your own thoughts and reflections completing directed activities such as case studies making notes on readings and videos. To give you an idea of how you could set yours out, here is a screencast example of a study journal. Play Video You can structure your journal into weeks, and label each section 1–20. In each week section, you can add pages for activities, including reflections, mini lecture notes, readings and links. You can also attach document files for easy reference later. Finally you can add in to do lists so that you can check off items as you complete them. Starting your studies 1. Independent research This module features some independent research activities, which require you to conduct your own investigation using the internet generally, as well as our Online Library. Please complete the Online Library tutorial before the first peer review activity in the next week . You can also visit the Online Library's pages on the effective searching of databases and information skills . Please note that you log into the Online Library with the part of your Portal username before the @. For example, if your Portal username is ab123@london.ac.uk , enter ab123. We also recommend that you read our research checklist to help you identify appropriate internet resources. independent research checklist.pdf PDF File Use the skills you have learnt to search for interesting or useful resources, particularly in relation to computer security. You may wish to brush up your academic writing and critical thinking skills by doing some activities in the Core Study Skills course that might be helpful when you are required to write a report for peer review. 2. Starting your study journal As you complete the activities in this module, you may wish to record your work in a study journal. You will need to start your own journal, in a format of your choosing. You may prefer traditional pen and paper or an electronic version. This journal will help you to collate information, monitor progress and organise your notes. You can use it later for reference when writing coursework or revising for your exams. This is for your reference only and will not be assessed. Which format should you choose? Online documents are preferable to static documents as you will be able to access them from any computer – handy if you study in more than one place! You could use any of the following: Word doc, Google doc, OneNote, a personal blog, Evernote or any other document of your choice. Study journal entries often include: collating links, articles and references recording your own thoughts and reflections completing directed activities such as case studies making notes on readings and videos. To give you an idea of how you could set yours out, here is a screencast example of a study journal. Play Video You can structure your journal into weeks, and label each section 1–20. In each week section, you can add pages for activities, including reflections, mini lecture notes, readings and links. You can also attach document files for easy reference later. Finally you can add in to do lists so that you can check off items as you complete them. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue