# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 5 minutes
5 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/Bayu1/module-syllabus

/ 12 100% Page 1 of 12 CM2025 C yber Security Course Description Cybersecurity is a key area of study in theoretical and applied Computer Science. This module imparts key cybersecurity principles such as encryption and authentication, essential for evaluating and enhancing the security of computing applications. Through real - world security scenarios, you will apply and assess core computer science concepts, honing their problem - solving and critical evaluation skills. The module fosters independence as you navigate complex cybersecurity issues, learning how to produce org anised work. Additionally, it provides a platform for substantial work from problem inception to implementation, equipping you with the practical skills crucial for addressing contemporary cybersecurity challenges. This cybersecurity module provides a structured exploration into the domain of digital security. Drawing upon engineering, computational and mathematical foundations, the curriculum enables you to identify and categorise cyber threats, address network secu rity challenges and implement cryptographic methods for data protection. The module also introduces blockchain technology, highlighting its relevance in enhancing transactional security. A notable aspect of the module is its emphasis on the broader societa l and ethical dimensions of cybersecurity, prompting you to assess practices in light of environmental and equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) considerations. The module consists of the following topics: 1. Identification and classification of cyber threats 2. Cybersecurity frameworks, standards, legal, ethical and professional considerations 3. Network and OS security 4. Application security principles: testing and debugging 5. Cryptography in practice 6. Blockchain for cybersecurity 7. Incident response and forensics 8. Emerging trends 9. EDI principles, sustainable digital ecosystems and employability in cybersecurity 10. Real - world cybersecurity case studies: design, test and communicate security solutions. Module syllabus / 12 100% Page 1 of 12 CM2025 C yber Security Course Description Cybersecurity is a key area of study in theoretical and applied Computer Science. This module imparts key cybersecurity principles such as encryption and authentication, essential for evaluating and enhancing the security of computing applications. Through real - world security scenarios, you will apply and assess core computer science concepts, honing their problem - solving and critical evaluation skills. The module fosters independence as you navigate complex cybersecurity issues, learning how to produce org anised work. Additionally, it provides a platform for substantial work from problem inception to implementation, equipping you with the practical skills crucial for addressing contemporary cybersecurity challenges. This cybersecurity module provides a structured exploration into the domain of digital security. Drawing upon engineering, computational and mathematical foundations, the curriculum enables you to identify and categorise cyber threats, address network secu rity challenges and implement cryptographic methods for data protection. The module also introduces blockchain technology, highlighting its relevance in enhancing transactional security. A notable aspect of the module is its emphasis on the broader societa l and ethical dimensions of cybersecurity, prompting you to assess practices in light of environmental and equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) considerations. The module consists of the following topics: 1. Identification and classification of cyber threats 2. Cybersecurity frameworks, standards, legal, ethical and professional considerations 3. Network and OS security 4. Application security principles: testing and debugging 5. Cryptography in practice 6. Blockchain for cybersecurity 7. Incident response and forensics 8. Emerging trends 9. EDI principles, sustainable digital ecosystems and employability in cybersecurity 10. Real - world cybersecurity case studies: design, test and communicate security solutions. Go to next item Completed Dislike Report an issue