# CPU simulation
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/wGKjs/cpu-simulation

In the next exercise you will learn more about how a CPU executes machine instructions, by playing the part of the CPU in an interactive simulation. The simulation looks like this: At the bottom there is some help text that will guide you through what you should be doing at each stage: On the right there are registers , most instructions will involve you either putting numbers into registers or using the numbers that are in registers. When you enter a value into a register you need to press "return" for it to register. Remember in most cases, the numbers in the operands of instruction refer to registers 0-7 (you should not use the values themselves). Each turn you need to get a new instruction by pressing the "Fetch Instruction" button. It will fetch the instruction at the memory address in the programme counter. In most cases the programme counter will update itself automatically, so you don't need to change it, but when you have a JUMP instruction, you need to set the programme counter address manually. The MEMLOAD instruction involves loading data from memory. To do that you need to enter the memory address into the address field highlighted below and press "Fetch". The value will appear next to the Fetch button (where it says "No Value loaded" in the picture). You then need to copy that value into a register. The MEMSTORE instruction writes value back to memory. To do that you need to put the memory address into the field highlighted below, and next to it put the value to store (this will be the contents of one of the registers). You need to press return to register the values and if the values are correct, you can press "Store" to store the value to memory. Lesson 7.0 Introduction Lesson 7.1 Computer architecture Lesson 7.2 Machine language and execution Video: Video Machine language . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Machine language . Duration: 1 hour 1h Reading: Reading CPU simulation . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Ungraded Plugin: CPU simulation . Duration: 1 hour 1h Practice Assignment: Practice quiz – Machine language . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min CPU simulation In the next exercise you will learn more about how a CPU executes machine instructions, by playing the part of the CPU in an interactive simulation. The simulation looks like this: At the bottom there is some help text that will guide you through what you should be doing at each stage: On the right there are registers , most instructions will involve you either putting numbers into registers or using the numbers that are in registers. When you enter a value into a register you need to press "return" for it to register. Remember in most cases, the numbers in the operands of instruction refer to registers 0-7 (you should not use the values themselves). Each turn you need to get a new instruction by pressing the "Fetch Instruction" button. It will fetch the instruction at the memory address in the programme counter. In most cases the programme counter will update itself automatically, so you don't need to change it, but when you have a JUMP instruction, you need to set the programme counter address manually. The MEMLOAD instruction involves loading data from memory. To do that you need to enter the memory address into the address field highlighted below and press "Fetch". The value will appear next to the Fetch button (where it says "No Value loaded" in the picture). You then need to copy that value into a register. The MEMSTORE instruction writes value back to memory. To do that you need to put the memory address into the field highlighted below, and next to it put the value to store (this will be the contents of one of the registers). You need to press return to register the values and if the values are correct, you can press "Store" to store the value to memory. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue