# Week 1 self-evaluation and reflection
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-algorithms-and-data-structures-2/supplement/rIxmo/week-1-self-evaluation-and-reflection

As you progress through your course, it is crucial to regularly assess your understanding and capabilities against the learning outcomes. This exercise is designed to help you reflect on your learning journey, identify areas where you may need to deepen your knowledge or skills, and develop a plan for improvement. Use this checklist to evaluate your understanding of the lessons covered in Week 1. If you don't feel confident about any of these concepts/tasks, revisit the relevant lecture videos, readings and activities to help you consolidate your knowledge. 1. Understanding Theoretical vs. Empirical Algorithm Analysis Can I clearly explain the difference between theoretical and empirical analysis of algorithms? Do I understand the scenarios where each type of analysis is most appropriate? 2. Time and Memory Consumption Analysis Can I determine the time complexity of an algorithm given its pseudocode? Can I determine the memory consumption of an algorithm based on its pseudocode? Am I able to identify bottlenecks in time and memory usage for a given algorithm? 3. Growth Functions Can I describe how an algorithm's time or memory consumption grows as input size increases? Am I able to derive growth functions for running time and memory usage? 4. Big-O, Omega, and Theta Notations Can I correctly use Big-O notation to describe the upper bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? Can I correctly use Omega notation to describe the lower bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? Can I use Theta notation to describe the tight bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? 5. Application and Problem-Solving Am I able to apply these concepts to analyse and compare the efficiency of different algorithms? Do I feel confident explaining and justifying my findings to others? Week 1 self-evaluation and reflection As you progress through your course, it is crucial to regularly assess your understanding and capabilities against the learning outcomes. This exercise is designed to help you reflect on your learning journey, identify areas where you may need to deepen your knowledge or skills, and develop a plan for improvement. Use this checklist to evaluate your understanding of the lessons covered in Week 1. If you don't feel confident about any of these concepts/tasks, revisit the relevant lecture videos, readings and activities to help you consolidate your knowledge. 1. Understanding Theoretical vs. Empirical Algorithm Analysis Can I clearly explain the difference between theoretical and empirical analysis of algorithms? Do I understand the scenarios where each type of analysis is most appropriate? 2. Time and Memory Consumption Analysis Can I determine the time complexity of an algorithm given its pseudocode? Can I determine the memory consumption of an algorithm based on its pseudocode? Am I able to identify bottlenecks in time and memory usage for a given algorithm? 3. Growth Functions Can I describe how an algorithm's time or memory consumption grows as input size increases? Am I able to derive growth functions for running time and memory usage? 4. Big-O, Omega, and Theta Notations Can I correctly use Big-O notation to describe the upper bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? Can I correctly use Omega notation to describe the lower bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? Can I use Theta notation to describe the tight bound of an algorithm's running time or memory consumption? 5. Application and Problem-Solving Am I able to apply these concepts to analyse and compare the efficiency of different algorithms? Do I feel confident explaining and justifying my findings to others? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue