# Course syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-algorithms-and-data-structures-2/supplement/p6BMR/course-syllabus

/ 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2035 Algorithms and Data Structures II Course Description How do you estimate how much memory an algorithm is going to consume? How fast is an algorithm when it has to process big data? What are the main algorithms to solve classical computer science problems? How do you select the best algorithm to solve a given problem? How do you organise data so it can be quickly accessed and modified? These are the main questions you will be able to answer after successfully finishing this course. This course builds on what you have already learnt on Algorithms and Data St ructures 1. Sometimes, you will revisit some topics to either deepen your learning or to look at them from a different point of view. Other times, you will learn about a new topic. The first part of the course focuses on Algorithms: how to analyse an algorithm, the magic of recursive algorithms, slow and fast approaches for sorting data and a new fast way of searching for data. The second part focuses on Data Structures. That is, the art of organising data for fast access and modification. We will st art by looking at dynamic linear data structures to then study hierarchical ones - as trees and heaps - and finally we will study graphs. Although the second part of the course has a much stronger focus on automatically evaluated programming exercises, yo u should code as much as you can in both parts to get a deep knowledge of the topics taught throughout the course. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Choose and justify appropriate data structures and algorithms to solve specific problems 2. Express time and space complexities of specific algorithms using big - O notation 3. Implement standard searching, sorting and path finding algorithms 4. Implement trees and hash tables different data structures, and describe the consequences of implementation choices 5. Compare and contrast recursive and iterative expressions of solutions to problems 6. Describe the abstraction of collections, relate this abstraction to linear collections, and recall the basic operations that each abstraction supports Course syllabus / 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2035 Algorithms and Data Structures II Course Description How do you estimate how much memory an algorithm is going to consume? How fast is an algorithm when it has to process big data? What are the main algorithms to solve classical computer science problems? How do you select the best algorithm to solve a given problem? How do you organise data so it can be quickly accessed and modified? These are the main questions you will be able to answer after successfully finishing this course. This course builds on what you have already learnt on Algorithms and Data St ructures 1. Sometimes, you will revisit some topics to either deepen your learning or to look at them from a different point of view. Other times, you will learn about a new topic. The first part of the course focuses on Algorithms: how to analyse an algorithm, the magic of recursive algorithms, slow and fast approaches for sorting data and a new fast way of searching for data. The second part focuses on Data Structures. That is, the art of organising data for fast access and modification. We will st art by looking at dynamic linear data structures to then study hierarchical ones - as trees and heaps - and finally we will study graphs. Although the second part of the course has a much stronger focus on automatically evaluated programming exercises, yo u should code as much as you can in both parts to get a deep knowledge of the topics taught throughout the course. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Choose and justify appropriate data structures and algorithms to solve specific problems 2. Express time and space complexities of specific algorithms using big - O notation 3. Implement standard searching, sorting and path finding algorithms 4. Implement trees and hash tables different data structures, and describe the consequences of implementation choices 5. Compare and contrast recursive and iterative expressions of solutions to problems 6. Describe the abstraction of collections, relate this abstraction to linear collections, and recall the basic operations that each abstraction supports Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue