# System usability surveys
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2010-software-design-and-development/supplement/aDwSp/system-usability-surveys

We covered quite a few readings in these videos. The most important reading is the one on the System Usability Scale (SUS). This is a recent article where Brooke, the original author of SUS, reflects on SUS. Brooke, J. 'SUS: a retrospective', Journal of Usability Studies, 8(2) 2013. For further, optional reading, here is a paper about UMUX and UMUX-lite: Lewis, J.R., B.S. Utesh, D.E. Maher 'UMUX-LITE: when there's no time for the SUS', Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems 2013, pp.2099-2102. Here is another optional read about the Creativity Support Index: Cherry, E. and C. Latulipe 'Quantifying the creativity support of digital tools through the creativity support index', ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction 21 2014. for all of these articles in the Online Library . Here is a link to the SUS spreadsheet mentioned in the video: sus_spreadsheet XLSX File System usability surveys We covered quite a few readings in these videos. The most important reading is the one on the System Usability Scale (SUS). This is a recent article where Brooke, the original author of SUS, reflects on SUS. Brooke, J. 'SUS: a retrospective', Journal of Usability Studies, 8(2) 2013. For further, optional reading, here is a paper about UMUX and UMUX-lite: Lewis, J.R., B.S. Utesh, D.E. Maher 'UMUX-LITE: when there's no time for the SUS', Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems 2013, pp.2099-2102. Here is another optional read about the Creativity Support Index: Cherry, E. and C. Latulipe 'Quantifying the creativity support of digital tools through the creativity support index', ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction 21 2014. for all of these articles in the Online Library . Here is a link to the SUS spreadsheet mentioned in the video: sus_spreadsheet XLSX File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue