# SUS survey
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2010-software-design-and-development/supplement/r9bJE/sus-survey

Now it is your turn to carry out a usability survey. You can do this with your friends and acquaintances or you can attempt to do it with your peers in the forums or using Slack. First, create a survey using your preferred survey tool. Google forms is free and easy to use, or you might use something else if you wish. The survey should start with information about the system you wish to test. You should select a system that all the people you hope to take the survey can access. ing the instruction about which system you want people to use, the survey should contain the ten questions from the class SUS. Each question should have a five point scale. The scale goes from strongly disagree to strongly agree. I think that I would like to use this system frequently I found the system unnecessarily complex I thought the system was easy to use I think that I would need the support of a technical person to be able to use this system I found the various functions in this system were well integrated I thought there was too much inconsistency in this system I would imagine that most people would learn to use this system very quickly I found the system very cumbersome to use I felt very confident using the system I needed to learn a lot of things before I could get going with this system Try to get ten people to complete your survey and compute a usability score. You will need to decide if the question is positive or negative in terms of usability. For example, question 1 is positive. Question 6 is negative. Here is a spreadsheet containing the questions, in case you find this helpful: sus_questions XLSX File SUS survey Now it is your turn to carry out a usability survey. You can do this with your friends and acquaintances or you can attempt to do it with your peers in the forums or using Slack. First, create a survey using your preferred survey tool. Google forms is free and easy to use, or you might use something else if you wish. The survey should start with information about the system you wish to test. You should select a system that all the people you hope to take the survey can access. ing the instruction about which system you want people to use, the survey should contain the ten questions from the class SUS. Each question should have a five point scale. The scale goes from strongly disagree to strongly agree. I think that I would like to use this system frequently I found the system unnecessarily complex I thought the system was easy to use I think that I would need the support of a technical person to be able to use this system I found the various functions in this system were well integrated I thought there was too much inconsistency in this system I would imagine that most people would learn to use this system very quickly I found the system very cumbersome to use I felt very confident using the system I needed to learn a lot of things before I could get going with this system Try to get ten people to complete your survey and compute a usability score. You will need to decide if the question is positive or negative in terms of usability. For example, question 1 is positive. Question 6 is negative. Here is a spreadsheet containing the questions, in case you find this helpful: sus_questions XLSX File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue