# Project management standards
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/udr3D/project-management-standards

Projects, whether building a bridge or developing a new app, benefit from a structured approach. The Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) outlines five key project phases that provide a helpful framework: initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling and closing. Understanding these phases is like having a roadmap for your project, ensuring you stay on track and increase your chances of success. This week's reading will introduce you to these five phases in more detail. Familiarising yourself with this concept will be incredibly valuable for any project you undertake, including your final year project. It will give you a common language to discuss projects, help you organise your work effectively and ultimately contribute to a smoother and more successful project outcome. After you've finished reading, reflect on how you can implement this in your current projects – either at work or in your studies. Is there a project you are working on (or going to work on soon) that would be benefit from being structured using this framework? Simonette, M.J., M. E. S. Magalhães and E. Spina 'PMBOK Five process groups and essence standard: Perfect partners?', 2016 4th International Conference in Software Engineering Research and Innovation (CONISOFT), Puebla, Mexico, 2016, pp.53-58. You can search for this article in the Online Library. Project management standards Projects, whether building a bridge or developing a new app, benefit from a structured approach. The Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) outlines five key project phases that provide a helpful framework: initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling and closing. Understanding these phases is like having a roadmap for your project, ensuring you stay on track and increase your chances of success. This week's reading will introduce you to these five phases in more detail. Familiarising yourself with this concept will be incredibly valuable for any project you undertake, including your final year project. It will give you a common language to discuss projects, help you organise your work effectively and ultimately contribute to a smoother and more successful project outcome. After you've finished reading, reflect on how you can implement this in your current projects – either at work or in your studies. Is there a project you are working on (or going to work on soon) that would be benefit from being structured using this framework? Simonette, M.J., M. E. S. Magalhães and E. Spina 'PMBOK Five process groups and essence standard: Perfect partners?', 2016 4th International Conference in Software Engineering Research and Innovation (CONISOFT), Puebla, Mexico, 2016, pp.53-58. You can search for this article in the Online Library. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue