# Hack it: Saskia Freeke
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/bhKBp/hack-it-saskia-freeke

Saskia Freeke ( website , Instagram , Twitter , tu mblr ) is an artist, creative coder, interaction designer, visual designer and educator based in Amsterdam. Since 1 January 2015 she has been making a visual artwork every day. She has amassed a huge collection of visually stunning animations and designs and, in the process, she has honed her skills and her craft. If you feel like learning more about Saskia, her process and this daily habit of making art, have a read through her post on medium or watch her talk on making generative art . Visit her Instagram page to explore her work. You will notice that she often employs the same skills you have picked up in this class, namely oscillation. Below are three examples of her work. Pick one to code from scratch. All of them use sine for oscillation to move geometric primitives. These primitives are also assigned a different phase in their cycle of movement in order for these interesting patterns at macroscale to emerge. Once you manage to reverse engineer each of them, feel free to make them your own by tweaking them to your liking. Saskia is using sine to move circles on the y-axis as well as to modulate their size. Then she assigned a different phase to each of the circles. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Saskia is using sine to move the white circles on the y-axis and to modulate their size. She's using sine to oscillate the alpha channel of the fuchsia circles. Then she assigned a different phase to each of the circles. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Saskia is using sine to oscillate the size of the rectangles and then assigns a different phase to each shape. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Hint: Start by coding one column of rects. You can also round the corners of the rect following these P5.js instructions . Hack it: Saskia Freeke Saskia Freeke ( website , Instagram , Twitter , tu mblr ) is an artist, creative coder, interaction designer, visual designer and educator based in Amsterdam. Since 1 January 2015 she has been making a visual artwork every day. She has amassed a huge collection of visually stunning animations and designs and, in the process, she has honed her skills and her craft. If you feel like learning more about Saskia, her process and this daily habit of making art, have a read through her post on medium or watch her talk on making generative art . Visit her Instagram page to explore her work. You will notice that she often employs the same skills you have picked up in this class, namely oscillation. Below are three examples of her work. Pick one to code from scratch. All of them use sine for oscillation to move geometric primitives. These primitives are also assigned a different phase in their cycle of movement in order for these interesting patterns at macroscale to emerge. Once you manage to reverse engineer each of them, feel free to make them your own by tweaking them to your liking. Saskia is using sine to move circles on the y-axis as well as to modulate their size. Then she assigned a different phase to each of the circles. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Saskia is using sine to move the white circles on the y-axis and to modulate their size. She's using sine to oscillate the alpha channel of the fuchsia circles. Then she assigned a different phase to each of the circles. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Saskia is using sine to oscillate the size of the rectangles and then assigns a different phase to each shape. Click here to see the image in larger scale. Hint: Start by coding one column of rects. You can also round the corners of the rect following these P5.js instructions . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue