# Topic 9 summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/etGg6/topic-9-summary

In this ninth topic of the module, you have looked at how to test your code and compared these techniques with the debugging techniques we have shown you. You have further grown your debugging skills with guidance on how to use the profiler while thinking about the effect your program’s complexity has on its performance. You should have also completed your third project log. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You are moving towards completion of your project – you have most code complete but are working through bugs and final functionality. You have made a testing plan for at least some of your project. You have submitted this to the forum for discussion with fellow students. You have explored the profiler and run it against your own code. Perhaps you have found inefficiencies and sped up your code. You have completed your third project log, reflecting on what went well from the previous logs and how you are going to address any issues. Topic 9 summary In this ninth topic of the module, you have looked at how to test your code and compared these techniques with the debugging techniques we have shown you. You have further grown your debugging skills with guidance on how to use the profiler while thinking about the effect your program’s complexity has on its performance. You should have also completed your third project log. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You are moving towards completion of your project – you have most code complete but are working through bugs and final functionality. You have made a testing plan for at least some of your project. You have submitted this to the forum for discussion with fellow students. You have explored the profiler and run it against your own code. Perhaps you have found inefficiencies and sped up your code. You have completed your third project log, reflecting on what went well from the previous logs and how you are going to address any issues. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue