# Binary search trees
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/FTdMQ/binary-search-trees

A binary search tree (BST) is a type of binary tree that maintains a sorted order of elements. Each node in a BST contains a: value (or key) pointer to the left child pointer to the right child. The BST property is defined as follows: The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with values less than the node's value. The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with values greater than the node's value. Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees. In this lesson you will learn: How to build a binary search tree containing a number of records. Find the height of binary search tree. How binary trees are used to search for values on a sorted list. Lesson 8.2 Rooted trees and binary search trees. Video: Video Rooted trees . Duration: 8 minutes 8 min Reading: Reading Rooted trees . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Practice Assignment: Rooted trees . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Video: Video Binary search trees . Duration: 14 minutes 14 min Reading: Reading Binary search trees . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Practice Assignment: Binary search trees . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Reading: Reading Rooted and binary search trees . Duration: 2 hours 10 minutes 2h 10m Discussion Prompt: Binary and linear searches . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Peer-graded Assignment: Trees assignment . Duration: 1 hour 1h Review Your Peers: Trees assignment Reading: Reading Topic 8 summary . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min 8.3 Extra resources Binary search trees A binary search tree (BST) is a type of binary tree that maintains a sorted order of elements. Each node in a BST contains a: value (or key) pointer to the left child pointer to the right child. The BST property is defined as follows: The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with values less than the node's value. The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with values greater than the node's value. Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees. In this lesson you will learn: How to build a binary search tree containing a number of records. Find the height of binary search tree. How binary trees are used to search for values on a sorted list. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue