# Design the perfect career
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 55 minutes
1h 55m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/aJC5X/design-the-perfect-career

This excerpt from Designing your life, written by two designers from Stanford and Apple, encourages you to apply a design thinking approach to your career plan. It suggests a smart and systematic approach to prototyping in a careers context and demystifies career planning and networking. Read the following chapter and answer the questions that follow: Burnett, B and Evans, D. Designing your life: Build the perfect career, step by step. (London: Vintage, 2018). Chapter 6 Prototyping. OL-CM2045-Burnett-11161 Accessible.pdf PDF File Consider this quote: ‘a prototype is not a thought experiment; it must involve a physical experience in the world. The data to make good decisions are found in the real work, and prototyping is the best way to engage that world and get the data you need to move forward.’ (Burnett and Evans, 2018). How might you use the approach of prototyping to help you explore your career options? Who might be good people in your network to set up ‘prototyping conversations’ with? What questions might you ask them to help you improve your career planning design? The following excerpt focuses on the impact of your ‘Knowing-whom’ dimension on your career success. It provides a structured approach to building a developmental network aligned to what you want to achieve in your career and suggests how you can broaden your range of professional contacts and inspiration. Arthur, M., S.V. Khapova and J. Richardson An intelligent career: Taking ownership of your work and your life. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017). Chapter 5 With whom do you work? pp.78–87. This reading is in the Online Library in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Consider this quote: ‘you can do better thinking systemically about your ‘developmental network’ and what you would like to both take from and give to the people in that network’ (Arthur, Khapova and Richardson, 2017). Who might you consider as being in your developmental network? What qualities might you bring to the developmental network of others? How are you making the most of your University of London experience to enhance your developmental network? Design the perfect career This excerpt from Designing your life, written by two designers from Stanford and Apple, encourages you to apply a design thinking approach to your career plan. It suggests a smart and systematic approach to prototyping in a careers context and demystifies career planning and networking. Read the following chapter and answer the questions that follow: Burnett, B and Evans, D. Designing your life: Build the perfect career, step by step. (London: Vintage, 2018). Chapter 6 Prototyping. OL-CM2045-Burnett-11161 Accessible.pdf PDF File Consider this quote: ‘a prototype is not a thought experiment; it must involve a physical experience in the world. The data to make good decisions are found in the real work, and prototyping is the best way to engage that world and get the data you need to move forward.’ (Burnett and Evans, 2018). How might you use the approach of prototyping to help you explore your career options? Who might be good people in your network to set up ‘prototyping conversations’ with? What questions might you ask them to help you improve your career planning design? The following excerpt focuses on the impact of your ‘Knowing-whom’ dimension on your career success. It provides a structured approach to building a developmental network aligned to what you want to achieve in your career and suggests how you can broaden your range of professional contacts and inspiration. Arthur, M., S.V. Khapova and J. Richardson An intelligent career: Taking ownership of your work and your life. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017). Chapter 5 With whom do you work? pp.78–87. This reading is in the Online Library in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Consider this quote: ‘you can do better thinking systemically about your ‘developmental network’ and what you would like to both take from and give to the people in that network’ (Arthur, Khapova and Richardson, 2017). Who might you consider as being in your developmental network? What qualities might you bring to the developmental network of others? How are you making the most of your University of London experience to enhance your developmental network? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue