# Webinar on functions
Video•
. Duration: 1 hour 48 minutes
1h 48m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/lecture/UR9TP/webinar-on-functions

## VIDEO TRANSCRIPT ## You may navigate through the transcript using tab. To save a note for a section of text press CTRL + S. To expand your selection you may use CTRL + arrow key. You may contract your selection using shift + CTRL + arrow key. For screen readers that are incompatible with using arrow keys for shortcuts, you can replace them with the H J K L keys. Some screen readers may require using CTRL in conjunction with the alt key Good morning, everyone. In today's seminar, I will just give you an overview of functions which is topic 2. First thing, we will be just revisiting some terminology that we have done. We looked at terminology of functions, then we look at some properties of functions, then we look at some particular functions which are logarithmic functions and exponential functions, and we revisit the floor and ceiling functions. That's what we'll be talking about today. An hour after I will answer any questions that you might have. As you have seen, you probably have seen these slides already or similar to them on the videos, so I've got a function f, which takes an input from set A and gives you an output of the set B, which means it maps elements of a set A to elements of a set B. In this case we have this function f, and we have the set A which has got 0, 2, 3, 4. We have got a set B, which has got 1-9, and we have a function f that takes an input x in A and gives you an output in B, and the output is just plus 1. For example, if you take 0, 2 times 0 plus 1 is 1, 2 times 1 plus 1 is 3, 2 times 2 plus 1 is 5, so A maps all the elements here, to elements in B. As we all have seen before, we call this function, this set, the domain, this is the domain which is set of all inputs. So the domain of this function is 0 set containing 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4, and this is the codomain. The codomain is the set of all possible outputs, which contains, in this case, all the elements in B, which is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. However, the range is a set of elements in B, which have pre-images in A. In another way is a set of elements in a B, for which there is an input that leads to them. So for example, one, there is zero that is mapped to one, then one is an element of the range. Again, three, there is an input that leads to three, then three is an element of the range. Five, there is an input that leads to five then five is an element of the range, and so on. For example, two that is now element that leads to two, there is no input that leads to two, then two is not an element of the range. The range is always a subset of the codomain. Here again, we say that one is an image of zero and we write f of 0 is equal to 1, we also say that zero is a pre-image of one. This is just some terms that we have been using in this topic. Now let's look at this function. For example, function g, which take maps R to R, with g of x is equal to x squared plus 1. First is we need to find the domain, the codomain, and the range of this function, as well as the set of pre-images of five. First, let's look at this. The domain is just the set of inputs, that's the domain of g. The codomain of g is this set of all outputs here, which is R as well. So in this case, the domain and the codomain are R. The range, I'm afraid is different from R, is actually the segment one to plus infinity. I think some of you have raised this in some feedback because we use the square bracket here. This open square bracket is the same as this parenthesis here. It means is this element is not included, that's what it means. Here it means one is included. Yeah. If I put this open here, that means one is not included. The range, in this case is one till infinity, is all real numbers greater or equal to one. If I put this square bracket to be this one here, then one is not included, or if I put this to be like just a parenthesis here, means this one is not included. You need to know that this square bracket open here is equivalent to this. It's the same thing, it's just another way of saying that element is contained or not contained. Again the range here is a set of all elements greater or equal to one, because x_2 is always greater or equal to zero, then if you add one to it, is always greater or equal to one. That is the domain, that is the codomain, and that is the range. If we look at pre-images of five, we just need to find x such that x_2 plus one is equal to five, sorry not five it's g. If we say g of minus two is equal to g_2. Sorry, this x_2 should be , doesn't matter. G of minus two is equal to minus 2_2 plus one, which is five. G_2 is 2_2 plus one which is five. The only add pre-images of five has minus 2 and 2. In this case, the set of pre-images of five is the set containing minus 2 and 2. Now we just revisited some terminology. We just revisited what is the domain? What is the codomain? What is the range? What is the image? What is the pre-image? We now know what all this terms are. Now, let's look at some properties of functions. First property we will be looking at is a function one-to-one, which means injective. Surjective, which means onto. Then we look bijective functions. Then we'll look at how to find the inverse function of bijective function. That's what I will be discussing in the next few minutes. But first, let's look at a function, injective function or one-to-one function. A function f from a set A to set B, is a set to be injective or one-to-one if and only if for all elements A and B, if you take any small lowercase a, lowercase b, which are elements of A, which is the domain. If you take any a and b element of the domain, then if a is different from b, then the image of a is different from the image of b. What does this say? That you cannot find two different inputs that leads to the same output. Whenever you have two different inputs, then you have two different outputs. That's what injective means. Whenever you find two different inputs that have the same output, then the function is not one-to-one, or the function is not an injective function. Well, this is similarly to say, those two are the same. To say that if you take any two inputs a and b in a domain A, if they have the same image, means if f_a is equal to f_b, then they must be the same. Those two statements here says the same thing. They are logically equivalent. If you want to prove that a function is injective, either you use this one or you use this one. You start from two different element and show that the image must be different, or you start from f_a, two elements with the same image and show that those two elements must be the same. That's how you prove that a function is injective and we'll look at one example in a minute. Now we should look at this function here. It maps x to so it doubles the input. For one, it gives you two, for two gives you four, for three it gives you six, and for four it gives you eight. This function is one-to-one for a reason, if you take any two different inputs here, you'll find they have two different outputs. There are no two inputs that leads to the same output. This function is a one-to-one function, always inject an injective function. But if we take this, I think some of you said the mode was not explained in the video, but I've explained this in the last seminar. But X mod two is the remainder of dividing X by two. I'd probably just see if I can show you here. Let me just show you what it means to say that. If I have three mod two, that will be 1. Yeah. Because if you divide three by two, you get 1 and the remainder is 1. If I have four mod two, that will give me 0. Why? Because four divided by two, that is equal to two and the remainder is 0. If I have five mod two that will be one, because five divided by two is equal to two and the remainder is one. I hope you understand what the modulus is now, it's just the remainder of dividing the first element with the second element. If we look at this function now, modulus, we have one modulus two is 1, three modulus two is one, two modulus two is zero, four modulus two is zero. As you can see, this function is not a one-to-one function, is not an injective function. Because if you take it for two reasons, you can either say one and three are different, but they have the same image, which is one. Or you can say two and four are different, and they have the same image. Actually, this function is not one-to-one, it's many-to-one, many inputs leads to one output. That's dysfunction. It's not a one-to-one function because you can find 0 here, and you can find two inputs to lead into it, which is not allowed in a one-to-one function. Now that we know what one-to-one function, let's try to prove that this function is one-to-one. Once we have the domain and the co-domain finite number of elements, when the domain and the co-domain are finite number of elements, we can check a few of them. We can check a few elements and see if it's one-to-one, function is one-to-one or not. But once we have the domain is an infinite number of elements, it's a set of all real numbers and the co-domain set of all real numbers, to check that you have to show it in general that you cannot find two different elements which have the same algebra. To do that, we can use one of those proofs that we got. We start from A and B, all elements of the domain. Let's assume that they have the same image and show that they must be equal. Means you cannot find two elements that have the same image, and they're all different. We start from assumption, let's take any two elements, we call them A and B, can be any two. We start from the assumption, we assume that they have the same image which means you assume that F of A is equal to F of B. This implies by substituting F of A by 2A plus 3 and substitute in F of B by 2B plus three. Then we'll have 2A plus 3 is equal to 2B plus 3. If I subtract three from both sides, that would give me 2A is equal to 2B. If I divide both sides by two, that will lead to A is equal to B. This means by starting from A, F of A is a quantitative B. We got to the conclusion that A must be equal to B. Therefore, F is a one-to-one function or F is an injective function. Now let's use the other proof which I've given you too, the two are the same. We start from a is different from b, and we show that f of a is different from f of b. We'll start from this assumption, we take to input a and b, we assume that they are different. If a is different from b, if I multiply a by 2 and I multiply b by 2, that 2a is different from 2b. If I add three to both sides, add three here and add three here, I will have 2a plus 3 is different from 2b plus 3. What is this? This is f of a, and what is this? This is f of b. This implies that f of a is different from f of b. This implies that the function is one-to-one function, or is an injective function. Then what we've just done that we show that if you take any two elements of R if they are different, then their image are different as well. That's what we've just said, which shows that this function is a one-to-one function or is an injective function. Now, let's look at this example, which is not an injective function. Again, the domain is R, the co-domain is R and f of x is equal to x squared. Well, if I look at f of five, for example here, it suffices to find two elements which are different and they have the same image to show that this function is not a one-to-one function or is not an injective function. Here, if I have f of five which is five squared, which is 25, f of minus five which is minus five squared, which is 25, so f of five and f of minus five are the same, however, minus five is different from five. We just showed that there two different inputs which are minus five and five, which have the same output, which is 25. Therefore, this function is not one-to-one function. You can choose any two numbers, minus one and one. F of one is one squared, which is one, f of minus one is minus one squared which is one. So minus one is different from one. But f of one is equal to f of one is equal to one, or you can take minus two and two. F of minus two is four, f of two is four, however, minus two and two are different. Once the function is an injection or is not a one-to-one function, it suffices to find two different inputs that have the same outputs to say that the function is not an injection. For example, if I look at this function here, minus five and five here, that's the set of inputs, that's a set of outputs here. Minus five has got 25 as it's image. So a minus five has got 25 and five has got 25 as its image. The same thing for minus two and two, minus one and one, minus 10 and 10, and so on. But we only need two different inputs that gave us the same output to say that this function is not a one-to-one function, but especially it's many-to-one. Many inputs leads to one output. Now, if I change these functions, look what I have done here. The domain was R, now I've changed the domain here to be R plus, set of real positive numbers. Now this function becomes an injective function. Let's prove it. We take two elements, a and b, we assume that f of a is equal to f of b. We need to show that a must be equal to b. Let's do that. We start from f of a is equal to f of b. This shows that a squared is equal to b squared. This leads to a is equal to b. Why a is equal to b? Because a and b are positive. We excluded the negative members from our domain. If the negative number were not excluded, then we will have a is equal to b or minus b. Then it makes it not injective. Now, that our domain has only positive real numbers, therefore, if a squared and b squared are equal, and we know that a and b are positive, they can't be negative, then this implies that a is equal to b. By leaving the domain as R, it's not a one-to-one function, and by changing the domain to only the positive real numbers, the function becomes a one-to-one function. You can use the other proof. You start from a different b. If a is different from b, that implies that a square is different from b square. Why? Because a and b are positive. They can't be negative. This will imply this. This implies f of a is different from f of b. It's either you start from f of a is equal to f of b and show that a must be equal to b, or you'll start from two inputs a and b different and show that their image must be different. Which in this case, we used both but it suffice to use one of those proofs because this is equivalent to this logically, those two statements says the same thing. If you have done the logic that looked at the logic topic already, and if you haven't done the contrapositive, this is the contrapositive of this. This is an application and it's contrapositive of this. They mean the same thing or they have the same meaning. Let's look now at a different property. Which is surjection or onto functions. Let's take a function f defined from A to B, which maps elements of A to element of B. Where f is said to be an onto function or a surjective function, if and only if every element of the co-domain of f has at least one pre-image in the domain of f, means that if you take any element in the co-domain, then you must find at least one element in the domain that leads to the outputs. If you take any element here, y you must find at least one element here, x that leads to y, means f of x is equal to one. This is what it means, if you take for all y in B, in a co-domain, there exists x. There exists x in the domain A, such that y is equal to f of x. That's one common definition of an onto function is. We will look an example. If every element in B has a pre-image, then the co-domain is equal to the range. If every element in B has a pre-image in A, than the co-domain of the function f is equal to the range of the function. This and this are equivalent. If we already worked out the range and the co-domain of a function, and the question say is function an onto function, just look at the co-domain and the range. If they're all equal, you say yes. It is because the co-domain is equal to the range. If the co-domain is different from the range, you say this function is not surjective because the co-domain is different from the range. We look at one example that shows what I mean with this. We look at this function for example, takes an element x in A and gives you an element y in B. 1, 2 times 1 is 2, 2 times 2 is 4, 2 times 3 is 6, 2 times 4 is 8. This function is an onto function because if you take any element here, two has one pre-image, four has a pre-image, six has a pre-image, eight has a per image. You can't find any element here that has no pre-image. This function is surjective and also its co-domain is 2, 4, 6, 8 and its range is 2, 4, 6, 8, so you can see that the co-domain and range are the same. However, if I take this function g of x, which is x mod 2, again, mod 2 is the remainder of dividing x by two. One and one and three, g of 1 is 1, g of 3 is 1. G of 2 and g of 4 are all 0. This function is not surjective, why? Because two has no pre-image, or you can say three has no pre-image. It suffices to find one element here that has no pre-image to say that this function is not an onto function. Yeah? If you can see this function, every element in the domain has a pre-image. However, this function, there exists two for example, which has no pre-image or has no input that leads to two. Or you can take three, it has no pre-image. So, this or this suffice to say that this function is not an onto function or is not a surjective function. Now, if we look at the domain, the co-domain is B, which is zero, one, two, three. But the range is only zero and one. So we can see that the co-domain and the range are different. So this function is not a surjective function or is not an onto function. Now let's look an example of a linear function. This function is a surjective function, and let's show it. Let's show that for every elements in the co-domain, there exists a pre-image for it. Example, just here, because there is a finite number of element in this set that we can actually see visually it's like it is a surjective or not. But here we can't. There's an infinite number of elements in here. In the domain and the co-domain. So we need to show it in general. So we need to prove it. We need to say, ''let y, an element of the co-domain.'' R here is the co-domain. We need to show that there exist x in R, which is another wing such that f of x is equal to 1. So what does this mean? If we need to show that if you take any y in R, you must find x in this R here, the domain, such that x is a pre-image of y. So f of x is equal to y means x is a pre-image of y, or x is the input that leads to y. Okay? So now let's start. We start with the assumption f of x is equal to y. Then what we do is try to find x in terms of y. So x in terms of y. Though I substitute now f of x by plus 3. So f of x substituted by plus 3. Then, if I subtract 3 from both sides, I'll have is equal to y minus 3. Then if I divide by 2 from both sides, I have that x is equal to y minus 3 over 2, which is an element of R. If y is an element of R, then y minus 3 is an element of R. Then what we've just shown there that if you take any y in the co-domain, then you will find x in the domain which is R. So this x is just y minus 3 over 2 such that this x is the pre-image of y. So for each y, we find x, which is just y minus 3 over 2. Now in y, I know that it has a pre-image y minus 3 over 2. For example, if I take y is 5. I know that the pre-image of 5 is 5 minus 3, which is 2 over 2 which is 1. I know that 1 leads to 5. If I take for example, y is equal let's say 7. I know that seven has a pre-image which is just 7 minus 3 over 2. 7 minus 3 is 4 over 2 is 2. I know that 2 is a pre-image of 7. So for each element, y, you can find a pre-image for it, which is just y minus 3 over 2. Okay? Therefore, if you do that now we can say that this function, this looks active. We just showed well whatever any y that we take, we will find a pre-image for it which is just y minus 3 over 2. So this function now is an onto function or is a surjective function. Now, let's take this function here. Which is again x squared. The domain is R and the co-domain is R. So this function is not surjective. Why? Because to show that it's surjective, we need to show that each y in the codomain R, there must exist x in the domain R such that f of x is equal, this is what I we need to show. However, x squared is always positive or greater than zero. The range really is a set of element of a real number greater or equal to zero, so zero to plus infinity. That's the range, which is different from the codomain because the codomain is R. The range is only set of elements of real numbers greater or equal to zero, and the codomain is the set of all real numbers. You can see that the range is different from the codomain, that suffices to say that this function is not a surjective function or it's not an onto function. We can show here all negative numbers have no pre-images because there is no element x such that x squared is negative, x squared is always positive or greater than zero. Here, all negative numbers in the codomain have no pre-images, and it suffices to find one element that has no pre-image to show that this function is not surjective. As you can see all positive numbers here have pre-images, however negative numbers here have no pre-images, so this function is not surjective for this reason. Now let's recap this function here. This function is one-to-one because each element here, two different inputs leads to the same outputs, though it's one-to-one. It's not surjective or it's not onto because 2 has now pre-image, so injective, not surjective. This function is not one-to-one because a and b leads to the same image, which is not allowed in one-to-one functions, so this is many-to-one, not one-to-one. It is surjective because it is an onto function, because every element here in the codomain has at least one pre-image, so it's surjective but not injective. Surjective because every element here has a pre-image, and not injective because a and b are different but they lead to the same outputs. Here, this function here is injective because every element here leads to a different output, and it is also surjective because every element in the domain has at least one pre-image, so this function is both injective and surjective. When I say injective it means one-to-one, surjective it means an onto. Then I'll go to here, again this function is not one-to-one because a and b leads to the same output, it's not onto because 4 has no pre-image, so this is neither injective nor surjective. This function is actually not a function, it's not a function because to be a function every input has to have one output. Here, a has two outputs, so this is not a function, it's not a valid function, it's a relation but it's not a valid function. That summarize what we have done about injective and surjective function. Well, now I want to stop for five minutes and take some questions, then we go back to next. If you have any questions, I can answer. I can see now that you have [inaudible]. Question 19, no problem. I can go at the end of the talk, let me finish the talk then I can go to question 19. [inaudible] injective function also injective. Now, there are two properties. Now, the domain and the codomain are not always the same. Constantly, the domain and codomain can be different. As you can see in some function I take the domain r plus and the codomain r, and in some functions, some examples, I take the domain is R and the codomain is R. They can be different. Yes that's correct. That's exactly correct. One, two with square bucket open, that means this. But I prefer this notation with square brackets because this can be confused to be like a pair one two. Let me just explain that one a little bit. Because I have a lot of questions about it, let me explain it. Let me just do that. If you have A let's say here one and here two. If you write to one, two, that means every elements in here, and that includes two as well, and it include one as well. One and two are included. If you write one, two, and if you do one, two, for example here, that means every element in here, but one is not included and two is not included. But there is another notation for it, which is one, you can just write one two. However, I prefer this one they do the same because this, you might think, that is a pair of two elements, one and two. However, it means everything between one and two, but one and two is not included. If we have one example, one two like this, it's the same as one two like this, which means that one is included but two is not included. That's what it means. Is there any other question? I think I've explained that now. Yes, you can use either proofs. If we leave the questions to the end, l might give you enough time to answer all your questions. Let me just finish what I was doing. You have a question about the order of the the second proof. What do you mean Calen? Can you hear me? Yes, you will get a recording of this webinar. Yes. Let's carry on and I'll answer all questions after, yeah? Let's go back to where we were. We've done that, this is fine. Now, this is just some exercise, you can have a look at them. If we have time, we can get back to this. Yeah, we can get back to these functions. Again, f is defined from R to R. Here is from R to zero to infinity. Here, the domain and the co-domain can be different, they don't have to be the same. This is all the different functions that we will probably visit later on today if we have time. Let's look another property which is bijective function or bijection, or invertible function. A function is said to be a bijective function or invertible if and only if it is both injective, which is one-to-one, and surjective, which is onto. If a function is one-to-one and onto, then it is a bijection, or it is a bijective function, or it is invertible function. There is too many names for these things: bijective, invertible, or bijection. If we look at this example, for example, this function is one-to-one because each element maps to one element, one unique element, and each element here has at least one per image, so it's both; one-to-one and onto, or both; surjective and injective, then it is a bijection. However, the function g here, although it is a one-to-one function, which is an injective function, it's not an onto function. It's not an onto function for a reason or it's not surjective because two has no pre-image. There is no input that leads to two. Therefore, this function is not a bijective function. It's not a bijection or it's not an invertible function because it's not surjective. To be a bijection or to be a bijective function, it's got to be both injective, which is one-to-one, and surjective, which is onto. It has to satisfy both properties to be a bijection. If I look here at this function here again, it is not one-to-one because a and b have the same image, but it is onto. So this function isn't a bijection because it's not an injective function or it's not a one-to-one function. Now let's look at this function here. Our function f defined from R to R with f of x is equal to plus three. This function is a bijective function, which means invertible function. Well, let's prove it. We can prove it. We have already done this proof. We've already shown that this function is injective and surjective. We've already shown that. Well, let's do it again. To show that the function is injective, we start from a different from b to input and we show that f of a is different from f of b. Let's start. Our assumption is, take two input, a is different from b. This implies that 2a is different from 2b because if you multiply two by both sides, we'll have 2a different from 2b, and if we add three to both sides, we have 2a plus three is different from 2b plus three, which means that f of a is different from f of b, which means that this function is injective. For surjective, we've done the same thing before. You take one element, y, in the co-domain and see if you can find x in the domain such that x is a pre-image of y. Starts from f of x is equal to y. That means we substitute f of x, y, plus 3 is equal to y. Then that means is equal to y minus 3, that leads to x is equal to y minus 3 over 2. What we've just shown that for any y in R, you can find x, which is just y minus 3 over 2, such that this x here is the pre-image of y. We've just shown that for any y in the co-domain, we can find x in a domain which is its pre-image. Then this function is an onto function or is surjective function. This function now is surjective and injective. Yeah, it's both. Then it is a bijective function or a bijection or an invertible function. There are many names to refer to this type of function. You can say bijective function, you can say function is bijection or you can say the function is an invertible function. Okay. Now that we know that the function is a bijection, so what we need to show now is to find the inverse function. If a function is a bijection or it's an invertible function, then the inverse function exists and we refer to the inverse function f minus 1. If f is defined from A to B, and if f is a bijective function, then f minus 1 which is the inverse function exists and it's defined from B to A. The inverse, if A is defined from A to B, then the inverse function f minus 1 is defined from B to A. Let's look at this example. x, this should be here. Here is , not x over 2. Let me just go here, . If I have a set A which is the domain, and set B, which is a domain, I have a function that takes an input A and double it and gives you an output in B. If you look 0, 2 times 0, 2 times 1, 2 times 2, 2 times 3, 2 times 4. This function, f of x is equal to . This function is a bijection. You can see that is one-to-one and you can see that it's onto, then it is a bijection function, which means it is an invertible function. This function here, it takes you from B to A, look at this function, f minus 1. If f is from A to B, f minus 1 is from B to A. Why it does this, doubles the input, the f minus 1 halves the input. Here let's see, if you take 0, 0 over 2 is 0, 2, 2 over 2 is 1, 4, 4 over 2 is 2, 6, 6 over 2 is 3, 8, 8 over 2 is 4. This function, f minus 1 is defined from B to A and he takes x as an input, and it gives you an output half of x, which is x over 2. This function f is a bijection and is defined from A to B and f x is equal to and its inverse function is f minus 1, which defined from B to A, and f minus 1 of x is just x over 2. That is just an example of a bijective function and the inverse function. You've got f of x here. Here is the domain R, and here is a co-domain R, is a function which takes an x from here and gives you in here. This is the function from R to R and f minus 1 is defined from R back to R. If f go from here to here, then f minus 1 is from here to here. If we check, for example, if f of x doubles the input, then f minus 1 of x halves the input. For example, if I take 4, f of 4 is 8, f minus 1 of 8 is 4, takes you back to 4. Yeah, and that's just to show you what's going on with the inverse function. Let's now look at how to find the inverse function. We take this function f is defined from R to R with f of x is equal to plus 3. We've already shown that this function is a bijection or is a bijective function. We've already seen that this function at the beginning of the lecture, and we've shown that it is bijective, now, let's find the x inverse function. Let's find f minus 1. Well first, you're right, f of x is equal to 1. Second, you try to find x in terms of y. We start by writing f of x is equal to 1. This implies 3x plus 2 is equal to y, sorry y was missing here. That implies that 3x is equal to y minus 2, that implies that x is equal to y minus 2 over 3. That implies that f minus 1 of y is equal to y minus 2 over 3. Now, the definition of the inverse function, f minus 1 is defined also from R to R because both domain and codomain, in this case, our R and f minus 1 of x, just substitute y here by x and you would get x minus 2 over 3. If the function is a bijection, then we can find the inverse function this way. First, you show that it is a bijection means it is an injective and surjective. Second, we use this method to find the inverse function and we swap around the domain and codomain. If f is defined from A to B, then f minus 1 is defined from B to A. Then we've done a little bit about the bijection function and the inverse function and I can answer any questions about them later. Now let's go to this function composition, which is another thing we looked at. This is a written f, o, g of x. F is a function, g is another function. F of g of x, this is always read as f of g of x, which we can write, f (g of x). For example, if you have x, you apply g to it, you get g of x. Then you apply f to the output of g. Then you get f of g of x. F of g of x means you apply g to x, you get the output of g, then you apply f to it. So it means f of g of x. If we take this example, for example, f of x is equal to , and g of x is equal to x square. F of g of x, we apply g to x, we get x squared. Then we apply f to x square we get 2 times x square. Now, if you look f of g of x, you got f of g of x, which is f of x square, which is 2 times x square. F of g of 1, which is equal to 2, which is f of g of 1 and g of 1, what is g of 1? G of 1 is 1, because 1 squared is 1, and f of 1 is 2 times 1, which would give us 2. This is how we work the composition of function. For example, if I have three sets, A, B, and C on our function g from a to b, function f from B to C. Then if I have a here, I apply g to a, I get g of A and B and I apply f of g of a here and I get f of g of a in C. This is the same as I applied f of g of a to this a here, that means you work out the g first, the output of g, and you apply f to this output to get f of g of a. This is how the composition of function works. If we look at this function here an example, so you've got f of x is equal to plus 3 and this function g of x is equal to 3x plus 2. That sets up a deck one here. But a g of 1 is 2 times 1 plus 3, which would give me five. If I apply f of 5, that will give me f of g of 1, which is 13, which is 2 times 5. G is 3 times 1 plus 2, which is 5, so now, f of g of 1, which is f of 5, which is 2 times 5 plus 3, which is 13. This is the same thing as to say f of g of 1 is equal to 13. That's just an example. If we work out f of g of x, that will be the same thing here, we substitute g of x, then we apply f to it, so it's 2 times 3x plus 2 plus 3, that will give us 6x plus 7. One thing you need to know, that when you change the order in the composition of a function, you get a different function, so the composition of function is not commutative, it's not commutative for this reason. For example, if I take f of x is equal to and g of x is equal to x squared, if I do f of g of x that will give me squared. If I do g of f of x, it will give me 4x squared, and you can see squared and 4x squared are different, so the composition of a function is different. It's not the same, it's not commutative, so when you change the order you might change the whole function. :05 Now one thing that you need to know, so if you apply f of f minus 1 of x is the same as f minus 1 of f of x is equal to x, is the identity function. If you have f that takes x to y, then you have applied to it f minus 1 that takes y back to x, so you haven't changed anything, so f of f minus 1 of x is equal to x. The same thing as f minus 1 of f of x is equal to x. Let's look at an example. There is f is , here is f minus 1 is x over 2, we've seen those two functions. This function is bijection, and its inverse is just a function, f minus 1 which is x over 2. Let's do this, so f of f minus 1 of x, is equal f of f minus 1 of x, which is f of x over 2, which is 2 times x over 2, which is x. Doesn't change anything. Or if we do f minus 1 of f of x, that will be f minus 1 of f of x, which will be f minus 1 of , always substitute f of x by 2, which will be, again, if you apply f minus 1, that will be over 2, that will be x. This is just a composition of a function. Now, I'll go back a little bit to the inverse function. :58 We look f of x, this is its curve, which is this green line represent the curve of f of x is equal to . F minus 1 of x has got this curve blue here, this blue curve here, which is x over 2. As you can see, these two curves are symmetric with respect to the straight line y is equal to x. This is one property of the curve of a function and the curve of its inverse if it exists. The curve of the inverse function of f is always symmetric with respect to your straight line y is equal to x, to the curve of the function f. So f minus 1 and f curves are always symmetric with respect to this straight line. :09 We have; are the following functions bijection. I think we looked at those ones. Let's look at the first one. Is this one a bijection? This one is not a bijection because it's not one-to-one. It's not one-to-one because minus 1 and 1 will have the same image, for example. It's not onto because negative numbers here have no pre-image, then it's not a bijection. It's neither an injection neither a surjection. However, this one. This one we started. Again, it's not an injective because, for example, minus 1 and 1 will have the same image. :59 However, it is surjective or onto, because from our codomain, we removed all negative numbers. Every real positive or equal to 0 number, even real number greater or equal to 0 has a preimage, then this function is not bijective because it's not injective, although it is surjective. Let's go to this function. This function, again, we changed the domain to 0 plus infinity to make it injective. It is injective, however, it's not surjective because negative numbers here has no preimage. It's not bijection. This function is a bijection because we're starting from a real positive and we're ending up in real positive. They all, every element here, every two different element in the domain leads to two different elements in the codomain, and also the range here is positive plus infinity, which is the same as the codomain. This function is a bijective function. Again, this one, we have seen it, we proved it here. This is a bijective function because we have proved that's injective, we have proved that it's surjective. Then if we will change for the same function, if I change Z to Z, the domain Z and the codomain, for example, Z, then this function is not surjective anymore. I can show you why it's not surjective anymore if I just go here and show you this. Let me show you this. :06 If I take this function, f, from :21 Z to Z, Z is a set of all integers. :30 For example, say x leads to x plus 3. :42 If I want to show that this function is surjective, we've already show that for each y, we can find x, which is just y minus 3 over 2. However, if I say y is 4, for example, if I take y is 4, then x will be 4 minus 3 over 2, which will be half. However, half which is not in Z, because Z, my domain now, contains only integers. I can see that 4, it's in here, but there is no preimage x that leads to 4. That's one example. Once you find one element that does not lead to 4, :53 then the function is not surjective, which is not bijective. We've done that. Let me take some questions and I'll try to answer them. Have you got any question? :43 Let's 0 even number equals 2 times 0 is 0. :49 For Helmut, let me see what you're saying. If the domain is 1, 2, 3, 4 maps to 1, 2, 3, is that a valid function? Well, it depends. :14 I can take the domain, for example, 1, 2, 3, 4 and I have a codomain is 1, 2, 3. I can say 1 maps to 1, 2 maps to 1, 3 maps to 2, 4 maps to 3. This is a valid function. :35 It is a valid function because each input has got one output, because there is no an output for every output. Yeah, this is a valid function, but it's not a one-to-one function, because two inputs here will lead to one. :08 Did I answer your question? :13 However, if you put this and you put 1, 2, 3, 4 and you put 1, 2, 3 and for example, you do this. This is not a valid function because this element here has no output. :38 If the number of element in a domain is greater than the number of element in the co-domain, then it can be a valid function sometimes. :14 We're no longer seeing your screen. This is a new share is it? :26 Oh, the board. Okay. You can see this one now? Yeah? If I have 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3 for example. :51 I can have one. This is not a valid function because four has no output, but if I can make it as four maps to three as well. Now it's a valid function, but it's not a one-to-one function. It's valid, but not one-to-one. :19 If you have a valid function where the number of elements in the domain is strictly greater than the number of element in a co-domain, then if it's a valid function, it can't be a one-to-one function, because you must have at least two elements that leads to one output. Does this makes sense? :52 Yes? Okay. Let me see, is there any other function. :04 Sifan, I don't understand the range of image in the second function. Let me function. What function are you talking about. Is that this? :27 Sifan is that this one here? :37 Let me try to write that one on my iPad. F is defined from R to 0 plus infinity, and f of x is equal to x squared. :04 Sorry let me do that. :13 F of x is equal to x squared. :22 If x is a real number, where x squared is always positive or is always greater or equal to zero. X squared is always greater or equal to zero. If x is an element of R, for example, let's say x is zero. Zero squared is equal to 0. Let say x is equal to 1, 1 squared is equal to 1. Let's say x is equal to minus 1, minus 1 squared is equal to 1. Let's say x is equal to minus 3, minus 2, minus 1. Pardon me. Let's say x is equal to minus two, minus two square is equal to 4. X square is always positive or greater or equal to zero. My range of the function is always :43 either zero or any real positive numbers than of zero. Which means this x square is always greater or equal to zero. The range is always this, which is the same as my co-domain here. This function is surjective, however, is not injective. Is not injective because, for example, minus one and one have the same input, which is one. :31 Does this answer your question, Stefan? :38 Third one, let me see. Where was the third one? The third one is f is defined from zero to plus infinity to R. This one now is injected because all negative number are not included. We are including only zero and the one, the two, three. There's only positive included. If you look here, R is zero minus one, minus two and so on, one, two, for example. I have here zero will lead to zero square, one will lead to one, two will to four and so on. All this will lead to positive. Any input here will lead to an output in here. All those negative now here they have now per image and domain. :08 It's not surjective because negative numbers which are here have no input that leads to them. :20 Stefan, does that answer your question? Yes, I have to check that because I looked at the mid-term paper, there is a mode paper, but I have to check this with University of London. :49 Is there any question that I missed? Because I can't follow all the questions on this chat. If anyone posted the question before that I can't see. Can you post it again? :16 Question 19 on the problem. Let's go to question 19. :31 Let me see where I can get question 19. :53 I'll get you question 19. Yes. :31 We need to prove if g of f is one-to-one function, then f must be a one-to-one function. That's what we need to prove. I don't know if you have this already. I'll start from f is going from, :00 I will try to give you a webinar per topic, yes. Maybe in a couple of weeks I'll give you another webinar on logic. :20 Yes, I will ask University of London to put it on the platform, yes. :41 Let me build this function. Can you see these solutions that I have under? Yes, fantastic. I have a function from a to b, f, and I have a function g from b to c. Given that g of f of x is a one to one function, I know this is given to me that g of f is a one-to-one function, and I must show that f is a one-to-one function. That's what I want. This is what I want to show. I want to show that if I have two inputs, a and b, then if a is different from b, then f of a is different from f of b. This is what I want to show. But my hypothesis is g of f is a one-to-one function, that's my only hypothesis. Then I start from g of f is a one-to-one function. What does g of f is a one-to-one function means, if you take two inputs, a and b, in a, then if a is different from b, then g of f of a is different from g of f of b. This implies that g of f of a is different from g of f of b. Then if those two are different, then f of a must be different from f of b, :25 that's what we want to prove. We want to prove that f of a must be different from f of b. :33 We started from a different from b, and also we started from this hypothesis, g of f of a is different from g of f of b because g of f is one-to-one function. Then we replace this by just g of f of a, which is different from g of f of b. If those two are different, then the inside here, which is f of a, must be different from f of b, and that's what we want to prove. :14 Did you get it, whoever asked this question? :25 It doesn't matter because if this is different from this, if I have, let me go back to this. :38 Let me go to here. If I have f of x is different from f of b, sorry, let me do that. If I have f of x is different from f of y, this imply that x is different from y. :08 Because if y is equal to x, then this must be equal because I'm not changing anything, but I have g of f of a is different from g of f of b. :30 This means that this f of a here and this f of b here are different. :42 Does this makes sense? :50 We don't really care about g here. We don't really care about g because if g of any number, g of x is different from g of y, then this leads to x is different from y. Otherwise, if this is the same as this, then this has to be the same. :15 Is this okay, Lee? :21 Let me see if any other question up there. Is there any question that I missed? :58 Someone said, where are the webinar posted? I've just spoken to University of London yesterday and they have now the webinar so they should be able to post it. I will follow this week and see if they have posted it or not. :23 I don't have this recording so they get it somewhere. If they send it to me, I'll just put it on the platform. :34 Is there any other question that I missed? If it's on the top, can you write it down at the bottom so I can see it? For the book, the book you can still use it if you want. I don't know how many copies they have got. Or use the new one, that is fine. If you have the recent book and you want to use to prepare, that is fine. Question 18. If you have the physical copies, great, use it. :23 Question 18. Let me go to question 18. Question 18 is very similar to question 19. What does it say? If you've got a function defined from A to B and function g is defined from B to C, prove that if g of f is an onto function, then g must be an onto function. The same thing, we can look at it here. :03 I said decision that had been made by University of London. :18 I think there would be a topic when we talk about proofs. I think it's topic 5 or topic 6. We will talked about proofs. We will talk about proof by induction, proof by contraposition, proof by contradiction. We will teach you some proofs on how to do that. Question 15. :45 Let me go to question 18. :51 Anyway, those questions at the end are a bit challenge. They're a bit hard question, they're supposed to challenge you. Don't be too hard on yourself if you say, "Oh, I don't understand that question." They're just supposed to stretch you out a little bit, that's it. :11 That's what I like to hear. Okay then. Last one, I like that. Let's start for this question. So f is defined from A to B. Sorry, this is g not f here. It's confusing me. This is g. G is defined from B to C. I need to show that if g of f is an onto function, :48 then I need to show that g is an onto function. My hypothesis is g of f is an onto function. We start from this hypothesis here. What does it mean? If you take any z in this C here, because g of f is defined from A to C. Let me just go back to this one, and I say, A is here, B is here, and C is here. So this is g. Sorry, this is f.. :38 This is g defined from it. So g of f is this, defined from A to C, g of f. To show that if I have g of f of x is onto, what does that mean? :06 If you take z, let's call it small z and C, then there exists x in A such that :34 g of f of x is equal to z. That's what it means. :53 This is what is given. That means that g of f of x is equal to z. :08 That means for every z in C, :15 there exists actually y, which is just f of x. Because there exist x, that means there exists f of x. For every z, there exist y which is just this f of x, such that g of this y is equal to z. That means that this g is onto as well. :45 I just repeat this. :51 That's C, that's B, and that's A, so f is defined from here to here, g is defined from here to here. :08 This is g of f. I said if I take z in here, because this is an onto, g of f of x is an onto function. If I take z in here, then I can find x in here, such that this g of f of this x is equal to this z here. :38 What is g of f of x? That means g of f of this x is equal to z. For each z, I find x here, and this x here, if I put this f of x is equal to y, this is f of x. :13 For each z here, there exists x such that g of f of x is equal to z. If I make this f of x equal to y, so this y here leads to g. This z here is also equal to g of that y, so we showing that for each z there exists x, there exists y, which is just f of this x, which is pre-image. Each z in here, there exist y in here such that this y is just f of this x, so we show that. Don't know if I explained it very well, but I think I'll repeat this. If you didn't get it I will repeat this. :14 Did you get what I was saying or answer this question or you want me to repeat it? Tom, good luck with your work. Okay. :40 Okay, Aushi, this is not exactly a doubt related to functions, but could you explain empty set? :54 I'm still not very confident. Okay, Aushi. Empty set is just a set containings nothing. :05 Empty set can be anything, a bucket has nothing in it. So we refer to the empty set as this, or we refer to it as this. :28 But I think what you are talking about is a power set. :35 If I take a set here, :41 and lets say it has 1 and 2. :48 What are the subsets of this set? Empty set is a subset of s. A set containing 1 is a subset of s. A set containing 2 is a subset of s. Now then, the power set of this s is a set containing all those subsets. One of them is the empty set, one of them is 1 on its own, one of them is 2 on it's own, and I missed one set is one also set containing 1, 2 is a subset of s, and one of them is 1, 2. Power set is a set of all subsets. Now if what you are confused with is the power set of the empty set. :53 What are the subsets of the empty set? The empty set is the only subset of the empty set. That's the only subset of the empty set. So this what it is. It's power set is a set containing the empty set, or is a set containing just bracket here twice because the power set is a set of subsets. If it's a subset of s, then it is an element of the power set. :59 Questions 15. Let me go to question 15. :15 Question 15 is, we have this function here, f of x, and the domain is minus 1, means it's all but minus 1 is not included. This is what it means, minus 1 is not included in this domain. :48 The domain of the function is, f is defined from R minus minus 1 to where? Is it to R? Yeah, to R, and f of x is equal to over x plus 1. The function is show that this function is a one-to-one function. We need to show that this function is a one-to-one function. The reason we are removing minus 1 from the domain because we can't divide by zero. If x is minus 1 the denominator would be zero. :37 Now, let's look at this. :47 Are you talking about question 15, :54 why is minus 1 not included? The reason it's not included, because if x is minus 1, let's say fx is minus 1. 2 times minus 1 over minus 1 plus 1. It's minus 2 over 0. You can't divide by zero. It doesn't exist, it's undefined. So that's why I'm removing minus 1 from the domain. Okay? :34 It's the same way that we showed that the function is one-to-one. You take two elements, a and b and you assume that :47 a is different from b and you show that f of a must be different from f of b. :01 It's very straightforward here. Or we can start from f of a is equal to f of b and we can show that a must be equal to b. It lasts what we did here. F of a is equal to f of b, then we substitute f of a by 2a over a plus 1. We substitute f of b by this expression. :33 Here, then we can say two times a times b itself which is like use this equation 2a times b plus 1 is equal to 2b times and we have this equation. 2ab plus 2a is equal 2ba plus 2b. Then we simplify by 2ab is the same as 2ab here. We simplify by this two. Then we get 2a is equal to 2b. That leads us to a is equal to b. We start from two. Same f of a is equal to f of b, then we get to a is equal to b. Then the function is injective. Is this okay whoever asked this question? Yeah. Question 15 on the sets tutorial. Question 15. Let me go to sets tutorial. :39 Tutorial on sets. :05 This one. :10 These are all challenging question that you're asking. Well, I'm glad you're asking questions about challenging question. Here I've got two sets, A and B and I need to show that the other power set of A union the power set of B is a subset of the power set of A union B. What I need to show that if an element is in a power set of A union power set of B, then it must be an element of the power set of A union B. That's what I want to show. Let me go back here. To show that power set of A union power set of B is a subset of a power set of A union B is the same. We need to show that if I take an x in here which is element of this, then I need to show that this x must be an element of here as well. That's what I need to show. Let's start. Let x be an element of power set of A union power set of B. Yeah. What does that mean? Means x is an element of power set of A or x is an element of power set of B. Yeah. What does x is an element of power set of A? This means that x is a subset of A or x is a subset of B. If x is an element of a power set of A, that means that x is a subset of A. I got to this. This will tell me that if x is a subset of A and x is a subset of B, then x might be a subset of A union B. If x is a subset of A union B, this means that x is an element of power set of A union B. ## END TRANSCRIPT ## ## ADDITIONAL PAGE CONTENT ## Lesson 2.2 More about functions Lesson 2.3 Extra resources Video: Video Webinar on functions . Duration: 1 hour 48 minutes 1h 48m Video: Video Topic 2 webinar . Duration: 1 hour 5 minutes 1h 5m Lesson 2.4 Summative assessment