# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-object-oriented-programming/supplement/onBWX/module-syllabus

/ 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2005 Object Oriented Programming Course Description There are several programming paradigms in computer science. One of the most important, especially when creating large software projects, is object - oriented programming, or OOP. OOP allows the integration of data and processes on that data into discrete so ftware modules. Learning about OOP will allow you to develop more modularised, more complex software designs. It will also let you understand better how many existing software libraries and systems have been designed. In the later stages of the programme, OOP is used extensively. This module aims to provide you with an object - oriented programming skill set. You will learn what objects and classes are and how to write classes. You will see how objects can interact with each other, including defining and implementing interfaces to co ntrol the interaction. You will learn how to use inheritance to inherit and extend functionality from parent classes. You will learn how to write code according to style guidelines and how to write formal code documentation. 1. Text I/O and functions 2. Using classes and variables to model data 3. File I/O, exception handling and algorithms 4. Writing and testing an algorithm 5. Object interactions 6. Libraries, toolkits, frameworks and widgets 7. Event driven programming and inheritance 8. Refactoring and class design 9. Initialiser lists, constructors and threads 10. Advanced class and user interfaces Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Understand and explain the key principles of object oriented programming 2. Choose appropriate basic data types to represent different data 3. Write classes with data and functions 4. Explain the purpose of interfaces and write classes that implement specific interfaces 5. Use inheritance to implement a hierarchy of classes 6. Write formal code documentation and write code following style guidelines Module syllabus / 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2005 Object Oriented Programming Course Description There are several programming paradigms in computer science. One of the most important, especially when creating large software projects, is object - oriented programming, or OOP. OOP allows the integration of data and processes on that data into discrete so ftware modules. Learning about OOP will allow you to develop more modularised, more complex software designs. It will also let you understand better how many existing software libraries and systems have been designed. In the later stages of the programme, OOP is used extensively. This module aims to provide you with an object - oriented programming skill set. You will learn what objects and classes are and how to write classes. You will see how objects can interact with each other, including defining and implementing interfaces to co ntrol the interaction. You will learn how to use inheritance to inherit and extend functionality from parent classes. You will learn how to write code according to style guidelines and how to write formal code documentation. 1. Text I/O and functions 2. Using classes and variables to model data 3. File I/O, exception handling and algorithms 4. Writing and testing an algorithm 5. Object interactions 6. Libraries, toolkits, frameworks and widgets 7. Event driven programming and inheritance 8. Refactoring and class design 9. Initialiser lists, constructors and threads 10. Advanced class and user interfaces Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Understand and explain the key principles of object oriented programming 2. Choose appropriate basic data types to represent different data 3. Write classes with data and functions 4. Explain the purpose of interfaces and write classes that implement specific interfaces 5. Use inheritance to implement a hierarchy of classes 6. Write formal code documentation and write code following style guidelines Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue