# Reading for Topic 1
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-object-oriented-programming/supplement/8RPMq/reading-for-topic-1

The textbook for this course is: Horton, I. and P. Van Weert Beginning C++17: From novice to professional. (Berkeley, CA: Apress, 2018) 5th edition [9781484233665]. We will point you to the specific sections of the textbook you should read in the lesson worksheets. In this week's worksheets, you will see the following sections: Chapter 2, p.38: std::cin Chapter 5, p.138: while loops Chapter 8, p.259: functions At this point we should say that the course does not follow linearly along with the textbook. The course develops larger projects piece by piece, introducing the C++ techniques as they are needed. The book is more of a reference for a large set of C++ techniques. Therefore, we point you to the relevant sections of the textbook for the techniques in each topic as needed. If you find you need further information than is in the videos, you can read the textbook's description of those techniques. Remember that all the Essential reading for this programme is provided for you. Click the link which will take you to the Online Library where you can search for the books. Reading for Topic 1 The textbook for this course is: Horton, I. and P. Van Weert Beginning C++17: From novice to professional. (Berkeley, CA: Apress, 2018) 5th edition [9781484233665]. We will point you to the specific sections of the textbook you should read in the lesson worksheets. In this week's worksheets, you will see the following sections: Chapter 2, p.38: std::cin Chapter 5, p.138: while loops Chapter 8, p.259: functions At this point we should say that the course does not follow linearly along with the textbook. The course develops larger projects piece by piece, introducing the C++ techniques as they are needed. The book is more of a reference for a large set of C++ techniques. Therefore, we point you to the relevant sections of the textbook for the techniques in each topic as needed. If you find you need further information than is in the videos, you can read the textbook's description of those techniques. Remember that all the Essential reading for this programme is provided for you. Click the link which will take you to the Online Library where you can search for the books. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue