# Summarise programme regulations
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/O2Yoq/summarise-programme-regulations

In this activity, you will read the BSc Computer Science’s programme regulations and then summarise them into a short guide for new students. These regulations provide the framework for our academic journey, outlining the essential ‘dos and don'ts’ relating to course requirements, assessment criteria and academic policies. The aim of this activity is for you develop essential skills in comprehending and extracting critical information from technical documentation, a skillset highly valuable in both academic and professional contexts. You can find the programme regulations for the BSc Computer Science on the University of London’s Academic regulations page (scroll down to the current year and then click 'Undergraduate' to find Computer Science). Once you’ve downloaded this year’s programme regulations, you should read the document, focusing on identifying crucial information regarding assessment guidelines, course requirements, academic integrity and the balance between flexibility and constraints within the programme structure. Task: Create a summary of the programme regulations document aimed at new students. Use the following points to guide you: Aim to keep your guide short and to the point—two pages should be sufficient. Use headings and subheadings to break the information into sections, such as Modules and credits, Assessment and grading and Special circumstances. Where possible, use bullet points or numbered lists to present information clearly and concisely. You may also want to consider using a table format. Think of this as a quick reference guide—it should be something a new student can read through in a few minutes and feel confident about the key rules. Remember your audience! The aim of this task is to break down a complex document into something more accessible. Summarise programme regulations In this activity, you will read the BSc Computer Science’s programme regulations and then summarise them into a short guide for new students. These regulations provide the framework for our academic journey, outlining the essential ‘dos and don'ts’ relating to course requirements, assessment criteria and academic policies. The aim of this activity is for you develop essential skills in comprehending and extracting critical information from technical documentation, a skillset highly valuable in both academic and professional contexts. You can find the programme regulations for the BSc Computer Science on the University of London’s Academic regulations page (scroll down to the current year and then click 'Undergraduate' to find Computer Science). Once you’ve downloaded this year’s programme regulations, you should read the document, focusing on identifying crucial information regarding assessment guidelines, course requirements, academic integrity and the balance between flexibility and constraints within the programme structure. Task: Create a summary of the programme regulations document aimed at new students. Use the following points to guide you: Aim to keep your guide short and to the point—two pages should be sufficient. Use headings and subheadings to break the information into sections, such as Modules and credits, Assessment and grading and Special circumstances. Where possible, use bullet points or numbered lists to present information clearly and concisely. You may also want to consider using a table format. Think of this as a quick reference guide—it should be something a new student can read through in a few minutes and feel confident about the key rules. Remember your audience! The aim of this task is to break down a complex document into something more accessible. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue