# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/RUu7Q/module-syllabus

/ 6 100% Page 1 of 6 CM204 5 Professional Practice for Computer Scientists Course Description This module bridges theoretical knowledge and practical skills essential in computing - related professions. It helps student to develop critical judgment through a legal, ethical, and sustainability lens, fostering a holistic understanding of computing's societal impacts. The emphasis on effective communication, teamwork, and project management prepares students for real - world problem - solving, analysis, and system developme nt, working within diverse teams. Through continuous professional development planning, students are equipped for a lifelong learning trajectory in computer science. The professional practice module prepares students for post - graduation computing careers by enhancing their technical education with broader professional skills. It introduces foundational ethical, legal, and regulatory principles, emphasising responsible computing practices. Students will refine their communication skills, essential for teamwork and stakeholder engagement. The module explores sustainability, ethics, and risk management in computing, teaching students to identify and mitigate potential issu es. Students also learn about industry standards and best practices for consistent, quality work. students learn about teamwork and strategies to operate in collaborative projects. The module concludes with a focus on career planning and lifelong learning. This module contains embedded career development insights and both employer and alumni voice content from your University of London Careers Service distributed across the topics. They highlight the value of the Global Employability Skills you are developin g in this module and provide guidance on how to develop your career strategy, whatever your career stage or region. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Communicate technical and non - technical concepts clearly and effectively through written, verbal, and visual mediums using proper etiquette. 2. Explain key laws, regulations, and ethical codes applicable to computing professionals and apply them to example scenarios to demonstrate compliant practices. 3. Recognize and discuss sustainability impacts of computing such as e - waste and energy usage, and propose improvements aligned with ethical principles. 4. Evaluate computing systems and data for biases and accessibility issues, and recommend inclusive solutions that support equality, diversity, and inclusion. 5. Apply risk management processes to identify, analyse, and mitigate risks and uncertainties in a computing project scenario. Module syllabus / 6 100% Page 1 of 6 CM204 5 Professional Practice for Computer Scientists Course Description This module bridges theoretical knowledge and practical skills essential in computing - related professions. It helps student to develop critical judgment through a legal, ethical, and sustainability lens, fostering a holistic understanding of computing's societal impacts. The emphasis on effective communication, teamwork, and project management prepares students for real - world problem - solving, analysis, and system developme nt, working within diverse teams. Through continuous professional development planning, students are equipped for a lifelong learning trajectory in computer science. The professional practice module prepares students for post - graduation computing careers by enhancing their technical education with broader professional skills. It introduces foundational ethical, legal, and regulatory principles, emphasising responsible computing practices. Students will refine their communication skills, essential for teamwork and stakeholder engagement. The module explores sustainability, ethics, and risk management in computing, teaching students to identify and mitigate potential issu es. Students also learn about industry standards and best practices for consistent, quality work. students learn about teamwork and strategies to operate in collaborative projects. The module concludes with a focus on career planning and lifelong learning. This module contains embedded career development insights and both employer and alumni voice content from your University of London Careers Service distributed across the topics. They highlight the value of the Global Employability Skills you are developin g in this module and provide guidance on how to develop your career strategy, whatever your career stage or region. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Communicate technical and non - technical concepts clearly and effectively through written, verbal, and visual mediums using proper etiquette. 2. Explain key laws, regulations, and ethical codes applicable to computing professionals and apply them to example scenarios to demonstrate compliant practices. 3. Recognize and discuss sustainability impacts of computing such as e - waste and energy usage, and propose improvements aligned with ethical principles. 4. Evaluate computing systems and data for biases and accessibility issues, and recommend inclusive solutions that support equality, diversity, and inclusion. 5. Apply risk management processes to identify, analyse, and mitigate risks and uncertainties in a computing project scenario. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue