# Webinar on relations
Video•
. Duration: 1 hour 47 minutes
1h 47m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/lecture/d9Iyn/webinar-on-relations

## VIDEO TRANSCRIPT ## You may navigate through the transcript using tab. To save a note for a section of text press CTRL + S. To expand your selection you may use CTRL + arrow key. You may contract your selection using shift + CTRL + arrow key. For screen readers that are incompatible with using arrow keys for shortcuts, you can replace them with the H J K L keys. Some screen readers may require using CTRL in conjunction with the alt key In today's lesson, we will just go over what actually you need to know from the topic on relations. We will start by revisiting the definition of a relation. Then we will look at how relation can be represented. We will look at representing a relation with the diagraph or with the help of graph. Then we will also visit the properties of relations. What does it mean to say that a relation is reflexive? What does it mean to say that a relation is symmetric, anti-symmetric, transitive? Also, we will talk about equivalence relations and equivalence classes. We will finish, this will be marked by talking about partial order and a total order. What is a relation? A relation can be defined between elements of a set A and elements of a set B. A relation can link one element from a set A to another element in a set B. A relation can also be defined on the elements on the same set and we'll look at some example. We always represent or refer to relations using this letter R, for a relation. This is where we'll go into a quickly but wait till we get it. Given two sets A and B, let R be relation linking an element of a set A to elements of a set B or linking elements from a set A to elements from a set B. If you take an element in a set A, x, and element y in the set B. If x is related to y with respect to the R relation, we just write x R y. It means x is related to y. I think you've seen these examples in the videos, for example, a relation can have the meaning. A relation here, a person x is a son of a person y. The meaning of this relation is a son of. Son of a relation that link x to y, where x and y are persons. In this case, the son of is a relation and we say x is a son of y, means that x is related to y. I think you've seen this. If y is not a son of x, we just put the relation and we cross it, means y is not related to x. Then we looked at this example that you've seen in the videos. We've got a set A, which has got students Sofia and Samir and Sarah. Set B has got four elements, which are modules or courses that the students can be involved to. There are four models: mathematics, Java, databases, and arts. The meaning of this relation, that relate the element from A to the element in this set B, that will relate student to the module they are enrolled means if a student x is enrolled in a module, for example, mathematics, we say x is related to mathematics. For example here, we can see that Sofia is enrolled in mathematics and Java. We say that Sofia R mathematics means Sofia is related to mathematics. Sofia is related to Java and again, Samir is enrolled in Java and databases, we say Samir is related to Java, should be Java here and databases. Sarah enrolled in mathematics and art, we say Sarah is related to mathematics, Sarah is related to art and so on. Sofia is not enrolled in art, then we'll just cross the R. That means that Sofia is not enrolled in related to art. Then we looked at the Cartesian product. Cartesian product of two sets is just the set of pairs where the first element of the pair is in A and the second element of the pair is in B. For example, if I have two sets, A and B. A has got a_1 and a_2, B has got b_1, b_2, and b_3. Then the Cartesian product is the set of pairs where a_1, b_1, a_1,b _2, a_1, b_3. Then we move on a_2, b_1, a_2, b_2, a_2, b_3. The set of all possible pairs where the first element of the pair is in A and the second element of the pair is in B, that's what we call the Cartesian product. Given now a relation from a set A to a set B, we can now present this relation as a subset of the Cartesian product. We can say that the relation R is a subset of A cross B, the Cartesian product of A and B. If the pair x, y is an element of this R, then we say that x is related to y. That means that x is related to y with that relation. I don't know if I have an example here. Let us look at this example here. We've got a set A has got a, b, c and a set B has got three elements as well, 1,2, and 3. We can define the relation as a,1, b,2, and c,3. Means that a is related to 1, b is related to 2, c is related to 3. This set R is a subset of a Cartesian product of A and B. That's why it means if all has got those three pairs means that a is related to 1, b is related to 2, and this means c is related to 3. We can define a relation by just giving the pair of elements that are related to each other. Well, now we looked at a set were a relation which links and an element from A to an element from B. Now we can have when A is equal to B means that the set, the relation on the elements on the same set. For example, it links and element from set A to an element of each R to a set A. Let's look at this questions. We will do that after I finish relations then if I have any question regarding the practice exam paper, I will go over it. Let's look at an example of a relation on elements in the same set. They don't have to be elements of a set A to element of a set B. They might be element of the same relation that links elements of the same set. Given this set, A has got four elements 1,2,3, and 4 and we can define a relation on the element on this set. Given two elements, x and y element of this set A here, if x is related to y, means that x is strictly less than y. What we have, 1 is strictly less than 2 so 1 is related to 2. 1 is strictly less than 3, 1 is related to 3. 1 is strictly less than 4,1 is related to 4, and so on. We can write that this relation can be defined by this pairs, as a set of these pairs. If the first element of the pair, for example, 1 is related to 2, then we have the pair 1,2. One is related to 3, then we have the pair 1,3 and so on. We have only the pairs where the first element of the pair is related to the second element of the pair and that we can define relation like this. If we look at this example. Again, now, if you look at here, the relation, the meaning is strictly less. If I look at this example on a same, and I change the relation just less or equal. Now I have one is related to one, because one is less or equal to one, one is related to two, one is related to three, two is related to two, two is related to two, and three is related to three. Depending on the meaning of the relation, we can list all the element that are related to each other. You can see here, for example, two is not less or equal to one, then two is not related to one. One is related to two, however, two is not related to one. Now we know how we define a relation, and how we describe a relation, and how we find the element that are related to each other with respect to the meaning of a relation. Now we will look at different ways of representing a relation. We cannot represent a relation using a matrix, and we cannot represent a relation using a bar graph or directed graph. We can use a relation. Here, given a set A, where n_a is the number of elements in A, and the set B, where n_b is the number, this is the cardinality of B, which is the number of elements of B. We can represent this relation by a matrix of order n_a times n_b, and I'll give you an example to show this. Where the element a_i b_j is equal to one if a_i is related to b_j. Same thing is equal to z otherwise is equal to zero if a-i is not related to b-j. But I'll give you an example. Let me see if I have an example. Let's look at this example. I have got a set A, has got Sofia, Samir, and Sarah, and a set B has got CS_100, which is the code of the course, CS_101, and CS_102. Consider the relation, the meaning of a relation means enroll. Takes an element from here takes a student, and if it's enrolled on a course, we say that student is related to that course. That's the meaning of the relation. Now we can rewrite this relation as mean this, Sofia is enrolled in CS_100, Sofia is enrolled in CS_101, but it's not enrolled. We can rewrite this as this table, and we can also write it as this matrix. If there are related, Sofia and the course here, one. Sofia is related to CS_100, Sofia is related to CS_101, then one here. Then we move to Samir. Samir is not related to CS_100, so it's a zero here. I can show you this on the iPad. Let me start the window iPad. What we have here is we have a set A, has got, let's say Sofia, Samir, and Sarah. The set B, set of courses, it has got CS_100, CS_101. That's just the code of your module CS_102. What we can do, if for example we were given this table that Sofia is related, means related in CS. If we're given the relation like this, Sofia, CS_100, the pair, Sofia, CS_101. Then we have Samir CS_101, Samir CS_102. Then we have Sarah, for example, CS. Let's say CS102 on itself. This is one way of representing emulation. We can now represent this relation by matrix like this. Matrix will be three by three; three rows, three columns because here the number of elements in A is three, the number of element of B is three. So the matrix will be three by three. We can start writing this matrix. I can put Sofia here, Samir here, and I can put here a Sarah and here is CS100, CS101, then CS102. Then I start. Is Sofia related to CS100? Yes, it is. Then there is one here. Is Sofia related to CS101? Yes. Is Sofia related to CS102? No, that is zero. Then I move to the second term. Is Samir related to CS100? No. Is Samir related to CS101? Yes. Is Samir related? Yes. Then I moved to Sarah. Is Sarah related to CS100? No, zero. Is Sarah related to CS101? No, zero. Is Sarah related to CS102? Yes. That is the matrix that represents this relation. I can either give you the relation as this as we have seen before set of pairs, or we can just be given the matrix, and we know which element is related to which other element. Once you have a matrix, we can write as a matrix M is, let's say three by three. I say m_11. First column. The element here is m_11, m_12, m_13. Means first row, first column, first row, second column, first row, third column, and so on. Here, m_21, which is second row, first column, m_22, m_23. Here m_31, which is third row, first column, 32, third row, second column, m_33, third row, third column. We can write this matrix, which sometime we just put m_ij, when j and i can vary from one to three. That's why you see that notation that we've used here, m_ij. If we have three by three, so we will have nine elements. Then will be 3 times 4. If A is four, then you'll put four rows and three columns. What you need to do is because we are looking at the relation, a relation is from the element of the set A to element of the set B. The number of element here of A will be here, and the number of element of B will be here. If we have four element on A, we will have four rows. If we have three elements in B, we will have three columns. We also put A in the vertical line and the element of B in the horizontal line. That's how we can represent a relation using a matrix as well. That's what we have done so far. Let's look at this relation here. Set A has got five elements; 1-5 and their relation is strictly less. Means x is related to y if x is strictly less than y. We can represent this relation as it is. We have five elements and here we have five elements. Is one unrelated to one? No, because one is not strictly than one. Is one less than two strictly? Yes. Is one less than three? Yes. Is one less than four? Yes. Is one less than five? Yes. Then we move to two. Is two less than than one? No. Is two less than two? No. Is two less than three, one, and so on? This will represent the matrix. Let's say A has got 1, 2, and 3. I have a relation on element on A, and the relation means x is related to y, if and only if x is strictly less than y. I can represent this relation, its matrix of this relation will be one, two, the element of A, and the elements of A again here, two and three. Now, I start comparing them. Is one less than one? No. Zero. Is one less than two? Yes. One. Is one less than three. Yes. Then I move to two. Is two less than one? No. Zero. Is two less than two? No. Zero. Is two less than three. Yes. Then I move to three. Is three less than one? No. Is three less than two? No. Is three less than three? No. That's my matrix. If I change this relation now, to less or equal than my matrix, is one less or equal to one, thus will change to one. Then is two less than two? Yes, it is. Is three less than three? Yes, it is. Then the matrix becomes as follow, when you change those zeros to one. That's just an example how you can present matrix relation using a matrix. If you look at this relation here, this diagonal here represents all the elements, if they are related to each other. One and one, two and two, three and three, four and four, five and five. I've explained this. Now, if we changed the relation to less or equal, then we only make all those becomes one, so it's the same relation but this diagonal here becomes only one, because one becomes less or equal than one, two becomes less or equal than two, three is less or equal than three, four is less or equal than four, five is less or equal than four. Now, what we now have to represent R relation by its matrix, we can look at the union of two relations, or the union of two relations. If you have two relations called R and S, R is a relation, and S is a relation. The union is the set of pair such that A is related to B with respect to the relation of, or A is related to B with respect to the relation S. The intersection of the relations is the set of pair such that A is related to B with respect to the relation, and not or. For the union is an or, for the intersection is an and. Where and, A is related to B with respect to the relation S. Then we look at this example. Let's make, this is the matrix of our relation R, and this is a matrix of relation S. The joint is the relation of the union of the two relations. What we do here is the M_R or M_S. What we do is if its, if you look here, one of one is one, zero of zero is zero, one of one is one. Here, one of zero is one, zero of one is one, zero of one is one, that's why we have here, all those ones. Whenever we go to that element, and we go to its corresponding element in the other matrix, if one of them is one, then we make it one. If they are both zero, then it's zero. Yeah, it's logic. Zero of one is one, zero of zero is zero, one of zero is one. That's what we're doing here to get the joint and we meet with the and operator. One and one is one, zero and zero is zero, one and one is one, and the rest, one and zero is zero, zero and one is zero, that's why we have the meet of this relation. Now that we know how to represent a relation using its matrix, and we know that you can represent, you can find the union of two matrices or the intersection, where we just talked about the meat and the joint, and how you can find a matrix of a relation, of the meat of the relation, of the joint of tabulations, now we can also represent a relation using a diagraph. Using directed graph. If I have, when a relation is defined in a set, it can be represented by a diagraph. First, if you have x is related to y, first you put all the elements that you have in a set, and if you have, if x is related to y, then you link it with [inaudible] , that's how we find the diagraph. Let's look at this example here. I have a set a, which has got 1,2,3,4, which has got four elements, and if you take two elements, x and y in this set here, a, x is related to y if x divides y, that's how the relation is defined. This recording will be put on Coursera later on today. Now, I can represent this relation as follows. Is one divides 1, yes, there is an arrow going from one to one. Is one divides 2, yes, it is. Is one divides 4, yes, it is. Is one divides 3, so one divides every elements. So now, I will move to two. Is two divides 1, no, so there is no arrow coming from two to one. Is two divides 2, yes, it is, so there is a loop in two. Then we move, is two divides 4, yes, it is. Is two divides 3, no, there is no arrow. Whenever the first element is related to the second element, we put an arrow between them. We cannot represent this matrix as with this definition, or by giving its diagraph, by giving it's corresponding directed graph. If we change this relation from device to this relation, we've got five elements in here, and I've got, x is related to y, if and only, if x is strictly less than y. That's it's diagraph. We can define it by giving its formal definition, or by just looking at this diagraph or related graph. As you can see, [inaudible] every element is related to itself, because we have the relation less or equal, so one is related to one, one is related to two, one is related to three, one is related to four, one is related to five. The direction of the arrow means, the vertex at starting of the arrow is related to the vertex which is at the end of the arrow. If we have this relation where we change it from, not less or equal, but we change it to strictly, so we haven't moved all those [inaudible] , because one is not strictly less than one, two is not strictly less than two, and so on. This is the diagraph for these relations. So far we know how the relation are represented, we know that you can, [inaudible] give just a set of pairs, where the first element of a pair is related to the second element of the pair, will just give a formal definition of the relation, or just to give its matrix of the relation, or a relation can defined by its diagraph. This is what we have done so far. But now, we will start looking at properties of matrices, and, sorry, not matrices, of relations. The first one that I will be looking at, [inaudible] is reflexivity, then I'll talk about symmetry and anti-symmetry, then later on we'll talk about [inaudible] , and the other two relations. Yes, that is correct. Yes, Carleen, you will get that. Well, let's look at the first relation. A relation R on a set S or on elements of a set S is said to be reflexive if and only if every element is related to itself. I repeat, every element is related to itself, means that if you find one element in the set S, which is not related to itself then the relation is not reflexive. Once we finish relations I can answer any other question. In another way, the pair x, x is in R for all element in S. Let's look at this relation here. Relation R is defined on Z, which is set of integers. Take two elements, a and b, a is related to b if a is less or equal to b. Let's see if this relation is reflexive. For all element, if you take any element x, we know that x is less or equal to x, means that x is related to x, means that this relation is a reflexive relation. This is just an example of a reflexive relation. Now, let's take the same set of integers but change the relation from less or equal, to strictly less. Well, you can see if you take any element in Z for x, x is strictly less than x. Take only 1, for example, is 1 strictly less than 1? No. Then, 1 is not related to 1. Therefore, this relation is not reflexive. When we say a, b element of Z squared means a, b, is an element of Z cross Z. Cartesian product, means a is an element of Z and b is an element of Z as well. Adan, did you get this? This relation strictly less is not reflexive. Now, let's do this exercise together. Here are two relations, R_1 and R_2. R_1 is defined as follows, a is related to b, a and b are elements of Z, a is related to b if a mod 2 is equal to b mod 2. All clearly a mod a is equal to a mod a, for any element a. Let's look at this. R_1 is reflexive as for every element a in Z, a modulus 2 is equal to a modulus 2. Therefore, a is related to a. Well, let's look at the second one. R_2 is defined as follows. Given two elements a and b in Z, a is related to b if a minus b is equal to 2. But we can just give a counter-example here. No counter-example. For every element a in Z, a minus a is equal to 0, means it's not equal to 2, means that every element is not related to itself, means this relation is not a reflexive relation. For example, you can take 1. One minus 1 is equal to 0, is not is equal to 2. Therefore, 1 is not related to 1. It's supposed to find one element that is not related to itself to say that the relation is not a reflexive relation. Now let's look at how the digraph of a reflexive relation looks. If a relation is reflexive, then it's digraph will all have a look at every elements. Means this one is related to one, two is related to two, three is related to three, four is related to four. If you draw the digraph of a relation and you find one vertex which has no loop then the relation is not reflexive. The digraph of reflexive relation should have a loop at every vertex. If there exists one vertex with no loop then we can straight away say that this relation is not reflexive. Let's now look at how the matrix of a reflexive relation, because you can just look at the digraph and say it's not reflexive. You can also just look at the matrix and say it's not reflexive. Yeah? All the values in the diagonal of the matrix of a reflexive relation are equal to one. Look at this example here. We've already seen that this relation is reflexive and this is it's diagonal. This diagonal is all one, this means one is related to one. This means two is related to two. This means three is related to three. This means this one here means four is related to four. Again, if one of those element here is zero not one, then the relation is not reflexive. If I have the matrix in front of me, okay the power of two. Here, can only explain itself. Here S has got element {1,2,3,4}. Yeah? I said, take the pair {a, b} is element of S square. I've just explained it before S square means (a, b) is an element of S cross S. Cartesian product of S cross S, means that a is an element of S and b is also an element of S. Is that okay, Caroline? Okay. Yeah, If I have the matrix of a relation, then by looking at its diagonal and if they are all ones then it is reflexive. If one of the values is zero, then the relation is not reflexive. Now we go and look at another property which is symmetry. We say that a relation is symmetric if and only if you take any two elements a and b, if a is related to b, then b must be related to a. Yeah. This is an amplification if you remember logic, P implies Q. If a is related to b, then b must be related to a. We'll see an example. Let's look at this relation here. Again, when I say Z square means a is an element of Z and b is an element of Z, that's what it means. This relation a the pair (a, b), in Z where a is an element of Z and b is an element of Z and a is related to b if a mod two is equal to b mod two. We want to see if this relation is symmetric. Okay. Well let's prove this, a is an element of Z and b is and an element Z. With a related to b. What does it mean a related to b? It says that a mod two is equal to b mod two. Because equal is commutative I can change the order, but I think a mod two here and b mod two here. I have b mod two is equal to a mod two, this means that a is related to b. If I found my starting point, my hypothesis is a related to b then my conclusion will be b must be related to a as well. That's what a symmetric is. Really let me say something about this. If I have, let's say this, a, b, and c and I have now element is related to itself. Let's say it's reflexive. Let's say reflexivity law, this is related to itself, this is related to itself, this is related. This relation is now reflexive because every element is related to itself. This relation, at the moment, it is symmetric as well, with the only thing that makes it not symmetric. If I have an arrow going for example from a to b. What I have here, I have a is related to b, but b is not related to a, so now it's not symmetric. The only way to make this relation symmetric, is to have another arrow here. Means if a is related to b, then b must be related to a to be symmetric. But if a is not like in this case, there is no relation because the hypothesis is not there. The only thing that makes it, let's say a is related to b, implies b is related to a. Remember, p implies q in logic p implies q. This is p and this is q. This is only false if p is false. If p is true and this is false, then the statement is false. Otherwise, if p is false, false implies true is true, false implies false is false true implies true is true. This statement is false only if we have this true, but this is not true. If I have this relation now, if I have, let's say a and let's say b, and let's say c, and lets say d here. Three elements. I find that this relation, as it is now element is related to itself. This relation is still symmetric. What makes it not symmetric is if I take two different elements, I link them with one. What I've done here is a is related to b. However, b is not related to a. Now, I made this relation not symmetric. We are not allowed a single edge. Either there is no edge, and if there is one, it has to be the other one backward. Otherwise the relation is not symmetric. That's symmetric means. The digraph of all of this and this. If I look at this relation a model is two, a mod two is equal to b mod two, where a and b are related. If a is related to b, it means a mod two is equal to b mod two. Here we can see that it's reflexive, and you can see that one is related to three, and three is related to one. Here, two is related to four, and four is related to two. This relation here is symmetric because we cannot find a single edge. False implies false is true. Let's go back to logic. I have proposition p and I have proposition q, and I've p. Because my pen needs to be charged, one second. Let's wait to just charge my pen a little bit then I'll explain it to you. In logic, P implies Q is always true. There is only one case when it's false, is when P is true and Q is false. False implies false, the statement still true. False implies true, the whole statement is true. True implies true, is true. However, the only case when it is false is true implies false. This statement is false. Does that make sense Hanzel? My pen is back now. Hold on one second. As we got back to logic, I have P and I have Q, and I have P implies Q. If this is true, sorry let's start by false. False, false, P implies Q is true. False, true, is true. True, false, is false. True, true, is true. This is the only case when it's false. If the first is true and the second is false. For reflexivity, me says, if a is related to b implies b related to a. This is false only when this is true but this is false. But if this is not true, this is false, then the whole statement is true. Let's now move on. If you look at this relation here, either there is no link or there is no arrow, let's take one and two. One is not related to two either so there's no link between one and two, there is no link between three and four. But if there is a link between one and three but this link has to be both ways not just one way. It means a is not related to b in this case, for example, here one is not related to two. But the relation says if one is related to two then two must be related to one. For example, here one is related to three, then three is also related to one. Same thing here, two is related to four, then four is also related to one. If you have a diagraph of a relation and you find two different node but are linked only by one single edge then the relation is not symmetric. Yes, it is, it's so called and now I'll put it all later on the platform. We now know the how the diagraph of a relation looks like. I'll just summarize this one diagraph. If I got say, a vertex here, Let's say A, B, C, and D. If this relation, as it is now, none of the element is related to each other. It's still a symmetric relation. What makes it not symmetric is if I find now it's not symmetric. You know why it's not symmetric? Because A is related to B. However, B is not related to A. The hypothesis is true however, the conclusion is false. If I want to make this symmetric, this has to have a parallel edge. Either there is no edge between two vertices but if there is, it must be true both ways. Let me repeat this. There is this relation here, I have three elements of a set, if I put it as it is, if the digraph is like this, look at it, it is symmetric. The only thing that makes it not symmetric if I have two vertices linked only one way, now it's not symmetric. To make it symmetric, I need either to remove that, it's symmetric, or to leave it but add another edge to make it symmetric. By looking at the graph or diagram of a relation, you can see if it is symmetric or not symmetric, why? Because if there is two nodes or two vertices that are linked only one way, then the relation is not symmetric. Also we can look at the matrix of a relation and decide if the relation is symmetric or not. This relation, we've already defined that is symmetric, look at this matrix here, it's symmetric with respect to this diagonal here, 0, 0 is symmetric, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, this relation, 1, 1, 0, 0, this matrix is symmetric again with respect to this diagonal. If you have the matrix already and you look at it, is the matrix symmetric or not? If the matrix is not symmetric with respect to diagonal then this relation is not symmetric. If the matrix is symmetric with respect to this diagonal here, then the relation is symmetric. Now we've got another relation which is antisymmetric. Relation R is said to be antisymmetric if and only if, if you take any two elements, if the first one is related to the second one and the second one is related to the first one, then those two element must be equal. In another way, if a is related to b and b is related to a, then a must be equal to b. If I take this relation here, I'll make it, that's a and that's b and that's c and let's say I link it only one way. This relation is not symmetric now but it is antisymmetric. The only thing that can make this relation not antisymmetric, yes, if I look at this relation now it is both, it is symmetric and antisymmetric Dave. This one is symmetric and antisymmetric, it satisfies both the definition of symmetric and the definition of antisymmetric. By looking at this, now if I have one edge here, now I made the relation not symmetric. :42 Even if these edges, is still okay but think of them as just like the vertices, it's not an edge, think of them as not an edge, those are not edges, it's just the vertex. :09 Now this relation is not symmetric but is still antisymmetric, but if I add this edge here, what I have now, a is related to b and b is related to a but a is different from b. :37 What antisymmetric means? If you take any two elements, if the first is related to the second and the second is related to the first, then they must be equal. However, we find two elements, they're all different where the first is related to the second and the second is related to the first, so this relation is not symmetry. In another way, when you look at the diagraph of a relation, if you find two different nodes :12 which are linked both ways, then the relation is not antisymmetric. :22 Because one is related to the second, second is related to the first, but they're all different. The definition of antisymmetric means, take any two elements ab, if a is related to b and b is related to a then, :51 this is our hypothesis, the whole thing implies a is equal to b. If you find two elements like in this case, a is related to b, b is related to a however, they are not the same elements. :12 If I go here and I put number 1, 2, 3, and let say the relation is less or equal or is strictly less. :36 The relation is strictly less means, one is related to two, two is related to three, one is related to three. :52 This relation is not symmetric but it is antisymmetric :04 because I cannot find a parallel edge. If I find the two nodes with a parallel edge then the relation is not antisymmetric. :17 I can add other nodes, :22 this won't change the relation is still antisymmetric. :37 The only thing that makes the relation not antisymmetric, if you find two different nodes like this one which are linked with a parallel edge. But, by looking at the graph if there is a parallel edge in the graph, it's not antisymmetric. If there is no parallel edge in the graph, the relation is antisymmetric. :23 If I added here less or equal, the relation that is less or equal. It's reflexive, it's not symmetric, but it is antisymmetric. Let's solve the diagraph on an antisymmetric relation is like this. For example, this one, take 1,2,3,4, which is the element of this set S and a is related to b if a divides b. This relation is antisymmetric because I cannot see any parallel edge. If I find one parallel edge then the relation it is not antisymmetric. For example, if I give you this relation here, a is equal 1,2,3, three elements and a is related to b if a mod 2 is equal to b modulus 2. When we divide this relation, we've got 1,2,3, so 1 here, 2, and 3 here. :53 We have all, one is related one, we have two is related two, we have three is related to three. We also have one is related to three and we have three is related to one. This is how this relation is. This relation because of this parallel edge, it's not antisymmetric. It is symmetric, but it's not antisymmetric. If somehow I change this relation so that I have one single edge here, so now it's not symmetric either. This single edge makes it not symmetric, and this parallel edge makes it not anti-symmetric. Is that clear now? :51 Yes. Then again, the matrix of an anti-symmetric relation is like this. If you have one here, then you must have zero here. Same thing, if you have one here, you must have zero here. If we have one here and one here, then it's not asymmetric. :17 Yes, it is a reflexive. :24 This one is a reflexive because there is a loop on every node. But if I remove this loop, then it's not reflexive anymore. :42 Is it okay Diego? :52 Okay, fantastic. If I add this, then it's flexible. Let's now look at this exercise here. Let's look at this matrix here will present a relation. Is it a reflexive? Is this matrix reflective? It's not reflexive because there is zero and is diagonal here, so it's not a reflexive. Straight away by looking at matrix, you know it's not reflexive. Is this relation symmetric? It's not symmetric because this matrix is not symmetric. You have one here and you have zero here. So the relation is not symmetric either. Is an anti-symmetric? Yes, it looks like it's anti-symmetric. 1,0,1,0,1,0 then the relation is anti-symmetric. :46 Just from looking at the matrix, we can deduce all the properties of the relation. Now, we will talk about another property which is called transitivity. When can we say how to deduce and there's how to deduce. :13 Let me do that. If I have a matrix, let's say I have a matrix, let's say, one here, one here, one here. :27 Let's just take a matrix of two-by-two. If I have one, one and here I have zero, and I have here one. :44 This is the diagonal. :49 The symmetric of this point is this point here with respect to the diagonal. The relation is anti-symmetric, the only thing that makes the relation not anti-symmetric, if you have one here and one here. :13 If you have zero here, and zero here, it's fine. But if you have one of them, one here, and you have zero here, then it's still anti-symmetric. But if you have one here, and zero here, it's anti-symmetric. But if you have one here, and one here, then the relation is not anti-symmetric. If we have three elements, :47 and I have this element here in green, and I have this element here in red and I have this element here in blue. :08 This is not zero. If it's zero, that is fine, if this is zero and this is zero it's fine, if this is zero and this is zero is fine. What makes it is anti-symmetric? What makes it not anti-symmetric? If this is one, and this is zero it's fine. Similarly, if this is one and this is zero it's fine. The only thing that makes it not symmetric, if you find one here and one here, or you find one here and one here, or you find one here and one here. If that is the case, then the relation is not anti-symmetric. Narisa does it make sense? :14 Yes, we can have a relation that is both symmetric and antisymmetric. :22 If I have a relation, this, if I say 1, 1, 1 and all the rest is zero, if I have 0 0 0 0 0, this is both symmetric and antisymmetric. :48 Yes, I can have the relation that is neither. Can have one here and one here and I can also have, let's say one here and zero here. This makes it not antisymmetric and this makes it not symmetric. :33 Let me show you in a graph. Matrix you can't see it but in a graph you can. Let's call this a, b and :58 c. Let's say there is a loop here, there is a loop here and there is a loop here. :10 This relation now is symmetric and antisymmetric. If I want to do the matrix for a, the matrix will be 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0. :27 That is fine. It's antisymmetric. If I add this edge here, now I make it not antisymmetric. What does it mean? A is related to b, so I made this one. This now makes it not symmetric. Let's say I've added b to c. Let's say here, I put two between b and c. Between b and c means I put what? One zero was missing, one here and one here. These two edges here are those ones. Now this two edge makes it not antisymmetric and this edge here, these two, one and zero, makes it not symmetric. :49 Does it make sense? :57 Let's move on to transitivity. In transitivity we don't take two elements, we take three elements. Any three element, they can be the same. Now there is no restriction on the three elements. A relation is said to be transitive if and only if, if you take any three elements, a, b, and c, if the first is related to the second and the second is related to the third, then the first has to be related to the third. If you take three elements, a, b, c, if a is related to b, and b is related to c, then a must be related to c as well. :47 Let's look at this relation, are they transitive? Now that we know what transitive means. Before I can do that, transitivity means, let's say I take a, I take b, and I take c, if a is related to b, and b is related to c, then this has to be related to this one. If you find three element, which is the first is related the second and the second is related to the third but there's no relation from this one to this one, then the relation is not transitive. :37 To make this relation transitive is this one here. :09 Yes, it's Lahcen Ouarbya. :30 Again, if I have this relation like this. I want to see if this relation is transitive, I can see here. :52 Add this and add this, let's say I add those, and I add those here. I have A is related to B, :03 and also I have B is related to A, :10 let me use black color. I have A is related to B, which is this one here, and B is related to A, which is this one here. This is my first one. This is the first, second element, and second, and this is the third. :49 There is no restriction that they have to be different. The third element can be the same as the first element. I have A is related to B, B is related to A. If A is related to B, and B is related A, then to be transitive, this one has to be related to this one. Which means A, must be related to A. So A is related to B, B is related A, and A is related to A. That's fine. But if we removed this link here, this loop, then the relation is not transitive anymore because A is related to B. First is related second, second is related the third but, the first is not related the third because the first is A and the third element is A, so be careful of this. :51 Let's look at this relation. Is it transitive? Yes, it is transitive. If I take three element: X, Y, Z. If X is less or equal to Y, and Y is less or equal to Z, then X is less or equal to Z. The first is less or equal to second, second is less or equal then X is less or equal to Z. Alex, would be transitive. Let's look at that. Alex, question, so if I have this relation here, which is A, A, A, B, and B, B, and C, C. Let's do it. This A, this B, and there's C. We have a loop here, a loop here, and we have this, and we have C. Yes, this is transitive. B, A, we add B, A as well. If you add BA here as well, then we have this. Yes, it is transitive. :28 No, it doesn't. If I didn't have BA, it's still transitive. Because the only thing that makes it not transitive is if you have the first is related the second and the second is related to the third, but the first one is not related to the third. A is related to A. :02 What is the first element there? Is A. :08 The first element there, if you say A related to A and A related to B, so this is your first element, this is your second, :26 that's the third, which is B, so it will give you the first is related to B which you already have there. Not B related to B. Alex does it make sense? Okay. :49 Okay. :06 Let's say a, b, b, a. :16 This is not transitive straightaway. If we have a, we have b, we have c, so we have, this is related to this one. A is related to b, where b is related to a. In order to make this transitive, we have b, b as well. :40 You don't have a, a. We have a is related to b, and I have b is related to a. :53 However, which is the first and the third, a is not related to a. Then it's not transitive. :10 C in this case doesn't make anything, yeah it doesn't do anything. :19 Yes [inaudible] that's correct. :42 Yes, it is transitive. :55 Okay. Again, if I look at this relation here, 2,3, 3,2, 2,2, this one is not transitive because three is related to two, and two is related to three. However, three is not related to three, so this one is not transitive. Again, the same thing, the relation a is related to b if a is an ancestor of b, this relation is transitive. If a is an ancestor of b, and b is an ancestor of c, then a must be an ancestor of b. Just some examples of transitive. Now let's look at this example here. :45 Is this relation transitive? No, because we have a is related to b, b is related to c. However, a is not related to b. Or we can have b is related to c, c is related to d but there is no edge coming. In order to make this transitive, we can add. Yeah. To make this transitive, we can add the edge. A is related to b, b is related to a and we cannot add edge c. Now we can also add this one because b is related to c and c is related to d, we can add that one as well. Now we have a is related to b, and b is related to d, then we need to add a to d. Now the relation is transitive. Okay? Sometime you might be given a question. You're given only the relations, at what edge can you add to make the relation transitive and you just have to add the correct edges to make the relation transitive. Okay. Now that we know what is reflexive, what is symmetric, what is transitive, what is anti-symmetric? Now that we understand those properties, then the rest is easy because we are just using those properties. The next one that we'll be talking about is, what do we mean with the relation to be an equivalence relation. A relation is said to be an equivalence relation if it is reflexive, symmetric and transitive. If it satisfies both reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity, then the relation is said to be an equivalence relation. :56 That is reflexive, symmetric and transitive then it is said to be an equivalence relation. Let's look at this example, we've already been shown that this relation is reflexive, we've already seen this example, we've shown that it's symmetric, and we've already seen that example and shown that it is transitive. Then this relation is an equivalence relation because it is reflexive, symmetric and transitive. :30 By understanding the reflexivity, the symmetry, the anti-symmetry, and the transitivity. That the rest you're just using them. Yeah. Now. :42 Let's look at this relation again. We've already proved that it is reflexive, it is also transitive, but it's not symmetric. It's not symmetric because 2 is less or equal to 3, however 3 is not less or equal, so this relation is not an equivalence relation. Although it is reflexive, transitive, but it does not satisfy the symmetry. They have to satisfy all the three properties to be an equivalence relation. If it's reflexive, transitive and it's not symmetric, that it's not an equivalence relation. If it's not reflexive, although it is transitive and symmetric, then it's not an equivalence relation. You have to satisfy all the three of them to be an equivalence relation. Now, once we have a relation, that is an equivalence relation, then we can talk about the equivalence classes. Once a relation, :00 yes, there are two different things. Some relation, as I showed before, can be symmetric and anti-symmetric, and some can be not symmetric and not anti-symmetric. It doesn't mean that relation is not symmetric, means it is anti-symmetric. :29 The subsets of S containing the elements related to a is a class, so we'll look at an example. This relation we've already did, so we've got a set S and we've got the elements are 1, 2, 3, 4, and we've got the relation, we've got this graph here. We already shown that this relation is an equivalence relation. This relation is an equivalence relation and it has two equivalence classes. You can see from the graph, this one is related to three and this elements, this group are related to each other, is another group are related to each other. The odd numbers are related to each other and the even numbers are related to each other. This relation has two equivalence classes. The first one, we can now understate the element that are related to one or the other, means this with square brackets, the set of elements related to one, which is equal to the set of elements related to three, which is the set 1, 3, that's the first class. The second class, again, is the set of elements related to two or related to four, which is just one of them, which is two and four. Once the relation is an equivalence relation, the you can see if you have the graph, you can see if it's an equivalent solution. You can see the classes or the element are grouped. Each group of element that are related to each other form a class. Let's look at this relation here. S has got five element, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 and we have this relation, a is related to b if a minus b is an even number. I can now write all the elements that are related to each other. :41 If an element is related to each other, all the other numbers are related to the odd numbers and all the even numbers are related to the even numbers. Because an even number minus an even number gives us an even number. An odd number minus an odd number gives us an even number. Here, this relation is like this, that two classes. Even number which is two and four relate to each other, 1, 3 and 5 are related to each other. You can see that there are two classes, class of odd numbers that are related to each other and class of even numbers that are related to each other. Now that we understand what an equivalence relation, there is one property that is left, is a partial order. A relation is said to be a partial order if and only if it is reflexive, anti-symmetric, not symmetric, anti-symmetric and transitive. If it is anti-symmetric, if it is reflexive and anti-symmetric and transitive, then it is called a partial order. :59 For equivalence relation, we say reflexive symmetric and transitive. For partial order, we say reflexive, anti-symmetric and transitive. Let's look at this relation here. We've already seen this relation, that's the R. :26 Well, only partial order to finish then I can take some questions. :40 Let's finish partial order then we can stop and take some questions. :52 Thank you, Ahmed. This relation is already proven, and we've shown that it is reflexive, we've shown that it is transitive, and we've shown that it is anti-symmetric. Then this relation is a partial order because it's satisfied those three properties. Now let's look at this relation: a is related to b. If a divides b. Let's see if this relation, it is reflexive because a divides a. It is transitive because if a divides b and b divides c, then a divides c. Yeah, it is transitive. However, it's not anti-symmetric. :46 Sorry, it is anti-symmetric. It is anti-symmetric as, a, if a divides b and b divides a, that means a is equal to b, so it is also a partial order. Another example of a relation that is a partial order. Let's now talk about total order. :12 To show that a relation is a partial order, you only need to show that it is reflexive, it is anti-symmetric and it is transitive. That's all what you need to show. To show that a relation is a total order, then it has to be a partial order plus one more condition that if you take any two elements, then you can compare them with respect to this relation. I'll show you what does that mean? For a relation to be total order, it has to be first partial order, which is reflexive, anti-symmetric, and transitive. Plus, if you take any two elements, a and b, we have either a is related to b, or b is related to a. Partial order means we can compare some elements with respect to the relation. But maybe some elements we can't say, we can't compare them with respect to the other relation. But with total order, if you take any two elements, at least you'll find an edge between them. You'll find an edge that linking those two elements. :44 I'll explain it in an iPad much better. :52 What we did partial order, :02 it has to be symmetric, it has to be reflexive, :10 then it has to be anti-symmetric :17 and it has to be transitive. :23 For a total order it has to be all those three, which is actually partial order plus if you take any two elements, you can compare them with respect to this and I will give you an example. Let's say I have got this relation here. I've got a, I've got b, I've got c. Let me call them 1,2,3 and call this relation divide. :14 Is one divides one? Yes, it is. Is one divides two? Yes, it is. Is one divides three? Yes, it is. Is two divides three? No, it doesn't. Is two divides two? Yes. Is three divides three? Yes. Is this relation reflexive? Yes, it is. Is this relation anti-symmetric? Yes, it is. Is this relation transitive? Yes, it is. Then this relation is a partial order. :00 Yeah. It is a partial order. However, it is not a total order, to be a total order because we can't compare two and three with respect to this relation. If you total order, it has to be partial order plus between every two elements, you'll find a link that you can compare them with respect to the accumulation. Although we can compare one and two, we can compare one and three with respect to this relation. However, we can't say much about those two. :45 Yes the total order, you can compare any two elements. That means at least one edge between any two element. If you have two elements, which you can't compare them, means it's a partial order. Partial order means we can have some order. We can order some elements. We can say Composer, some element, some we count. :22 Yeah, you could say that means you can compact. In the complete graph, you are not allowed loops and over has to be simple. But here, as long as it is a partial order and we can compare any two element that means a total order. If there exists two elements, when we can't say much about them, then we can't say that it's a total order. If I take the other one which is less or equal, if I said, instead of taking divide, I change this to lesser record not divide. I change this to a relation less or equal. Is one less or equal to one, is one less than or equal to three, is two less or equal to three? Yes, it is. Now it is a total order. It is reflexive, it is anti-symmetric, it is transitive. Also, if I take any two elements, I can compare them with the relation less or equal. Yeah, a complete gulf is about a special gulf yeah there are those connections. When we talk about complete gulf, we don't even talk about bio reactions. When we talk about relation, we talk about [inaudible] graphs, :09 all the edges, [inaudible]. Does it make sense Muhammad? :24 Let me go back here. That's how we've done that. :32 What does it mean? :40 The divide that I've just shown you is a partial order. However, it's not a total order. :53 No. Well, if you can't compile each element to itself then it's not reflexive. There has to be reflexive. :06 If it's not reflexive, it's not a partial order its not a total order. Okay. That's fine. Just like a summary of what we've looked at today. Today, I'm giving you a summary of all what's on those videos. Yeah. We visited the definition of a relation. We looked up representing the relation using a matrix and we looked at other presentation in relation using a bar graphs. Then we talked about properties of a relation we talked about reflexivity, symmetry and anti-symmetry. We also talked about transitivity. Then we finished by looking at equivalence relations and equivalence classes. Now we just talked about partial order and a total order. What I will do now is I'll stop the recording and can take any question of , anything else. ## END TRANSCRIPT ## ## ADDITIONAL PAGE CONTENT ## Lesson 9.2 Equivalence, and partial and total order relations Lesson 9.3 Extra resources Video: Video Webinar on relations . Duration: 1 hour 47 minutes 1h 47m Reading: Reading Problem sheet on relations . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Problem sheet solution . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min