# How blockchain manages digital identity
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/zAGYT/how-blockchain-manages-digital-identity

In the previous videos, you explored the potential of blockchain to revolutionise identity management especially through decentralised, user-controlled systems like self-sovereign identity. You also considered the technical, regulatory and ethical challenges that accompany these innovations. This article provides a comprehensive review of how blockchain manages digital identity. It will help you consolidate your learning by connecting technical foundations to real-world challenges particularly in relation to data privacy, trust and governance models. It also introduces key distinctions between identity types and frameworks. Read: Rathee, T. and P. Singh ‘ A systematic literature mapping on secure identity management using blockchain technology’ , Journal of King Saud University - Computer and Information Sciences 34(8) Part B 2022, pp.5782–5796. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, pay attention to: how the authors distinguish between identity, identifiers and credentials, terms often used interchangeably the architecture models proposed and how they relate to self-sovereign identity concepts discussed earlier the risks and open questions around privacy, standardisation and long-term sustainability how these insights might influence the design of blockchain identity systems or their governance in practice. How blockchain manages digital identity In the previous videos, you explored the potential of blockchain to revolutionise identity management especially through decentralised, user-controlled systems like self-sovereign identity. You also considered the technical, regulatory and ethical challenges that accompany these innovations. This article provides a comprehensive review of how blockchain manages digital identity. It will help you consolidate your learning by connecting technical foundations to real-world challenges particularly in relation to data privacy, trust and governance models. It also introduces key distinctions between identity types and frameworks. Read: Rathee, T. and P. Singh ‘ A systematic literature mapping on secure identity management using blockchain technology’ , Journal of King Saud University - Computer and Information Sciences 34(8) Part B 2022, pp.5782–5796. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, pay attention to: how the authors distinguish between identity, identifiers and credentials, terms often used interchangeably the architecture models proposed and how they relate to self-sovereign identity concepts discussed earlier the risks and open questions around privacy, standardisation and long-term sustainability how these insights might influence the design of blockchain identity systems or their governance in practice. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue