# Week 10 reading
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2010-software-design-and-development/supplement/GewEJ/week-10-reading

There are quite a few reading references this week. You do not need to read all of these, but we will go into some detail on some of them, and you might want to independently read them yourself. Classic paper from 1975: Saltzer, J.H. and M. D. Schroeder ' The protection of information in computer systems ', Proceedings of the IEEE 63(9) 1975, pp.1278–308. David Wheeler's book is a great resource. It is Unix focused but applicable to all platforms: Wheeler, D.A. Secure programming for Linux and Unix HOWTO (1999). Some interesting articles can be found in Security and Privacy . For an analysis of software companies' approach to secure software, read Geer, D. ' Are companies actually using secure development life cycles? ', Computer 43(6) 2010, pp.12–16. Links: Microsoft SDL practices Software Assurance Maturity Model Building Security in Maturity Model Comprehensive, Lightweight Application Security Process (CLASP)/Open Source Foundation for Application Security (OWASP): Introduction to the CLASP process OWASP: Top 10 issues for web application security Once on the IEEE page, click on the blue ‘Institutional Sign In’ box at the top of the screen and search for ‘University of London: Online Library’ to access the readings. If any links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Week 10 reading There are quite a few reading references this week. You do not need to read all of these, but we will go into some detail on some of them, and you might want to independently read them yourself. Classic paper from 1975: Saltzer, J.H. and M. D. Schroeder ' The protection of information in computer systems ', Proceedings of the IEEE 63(9) 1975, pp.1278–308. David Wheeler's book is a great resource. It is Unix focused but applicable to all platforms: Wheeler, D.A. Secure programming for Linux and Unix HOWTO (1999). Some interesting articles can be found in Security and Privacy . For an analysis of software companies' approach to secure software, read Geer, D. ' Are companies actually using secure development life cycles? ', Computer 43(6) 2010, pp.12–16. Links: Microsoft SDL practices Software Assurance Maturity Model Building Security in Maturity Model Comprehensive, Lightweight Application Security Process (CLASP)/Open Source Foundation for Application Security (OWASP): Introduction to the CLASP process OWASP: Top 10 issues for web application security Once on the IEEE page, click on the blue ‘Institutional Sign In’ box at the top of the screen and search for ‘University of London: Online Library’ to access the readings. If any links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue