# CM2015 Programming with Data Syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2015-programming-with-data/supplement/XXW3x/cm2015-programming-with-data-syllabus

/ 8 100% Page 1 of 8 CM2015 Programming with Data Course Description This module will show you how to work with data: getting data from a variety of sources, visualising data in compelling, informative ways, processing data to make it useful and shareable, and reasoning with data to test assumptions and explore the complexity of rich datasets. The module will also introduce you to a new language and programming environmen t that is well - adapted for these applications – Python. This module explores a multitude of ways to work with data of different types. Students will take an activity - centric approach to learning, exploring some of the complexities around data through a variety of lenses and a range of different challenges. Each topic covers a different set of skills that are useful in handling, managing and working with data from a variety of sources. Through the identification and exploration of data that is constructed, stored and retrieved in different ways students will gain practical experience in handling a variety of technical challenges. • Jupyter notebooks, variables, strings • List s, control flow and functions • Data structures • Reading and writing data on the filesystem • Processing text data • Retrieving data from the web • Retrieving data from databases • Cleaning and restructuring data • Data visualisation • Advanced topics in Python and data programming Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Set up and work within a Python environment for writing data - driven software 2. Write simple programs in Python that perform data analysis and visualisation 3. Explain how to retrieve data from various sources and be able to load it into a program 4. Prepare and summari s e data 5. Reason about data to make predictions and classifications CM2015 Programming with Data Syllabus / 8 100% Page 1 of 8 CM2015 Programming with Data Course Description This module will show you how to work with data: getting data from a variety of sources, visualising data in compelling, informative ways, processing data to make it useful and shareable, and reasoning with data to test assumptions and explore the complexity of rich datasets. The module will also introduce you to a new language and programming environmen t that is well - adapted for these applications – Python. This module explores a multitude of ways to work with data of different types. Students will take an activity - centric approach to learning, exploring some of the complexities around data through a variety of lenses and a range of different challenges. Each topic covers a different set of skills that are useful in handling, managing and working with data from a variety of sources. Through the identification and exploration of data that is constructed, stored and retrieved in different ways students will gain practical experience in handling a variety of technical challenges. • Jupyter notebooks, variables, strings • List s, control flow and functions • Data structures • Reading and writing data on the filesystem • Processing text data • Retrieving data from the web • Retrieving data from databases • Cleaning and restructuring data • Data visualisation • Advanced topics in Python and data programming Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Set up and work within a Python environment for writing data - driven software 2. Write simple programs in Python that perform data analysis and visualisation 3. Explain how to retrieve data from various sources and be able to load it into a program 4. Prepare and summari s e data 5. Reason about data to make predictions and classifications Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue