# Using Kyber and Dilithium in post-quantum security
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 25 minutes
1h 25m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/z9IPv/using-kyber-and-dilithium-in-post-quantum-security

Last week, we explored how quantum computing undermines classical encryption (e.g., RSA and ECC), and how the NIST‑standardised post‑quantum cryptographic schemes offer resilient alternatives. We also discussed the practical challenges of implementing these algorithms, including performance and hardware considerations. The following paper presents a unified hardware architecture – KaLi – that supports both Kyber and Dilithium operations efficiently. Read: Aikata, A., A. C. Mert, M. Imran, S. Pagliarini and S. S. Roy ‘KaLi: A Crystal for post-quantum security using Kyber and Dilithium’, IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Paper 70(2) 2023, pp.747–758. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, focus on: how KaLi unifies key exchange and signature operations in a single architecture. What are the design choices and benefits the practical performance trade-offs. How do the ASIC and FPGA metrics (e.g., clock frequency, area footprint) reflect KaLi's suitability for real-world deployment? Using Kyber and Dilithium in post-quantum security Last week, we explored how quantum computing undermines classical encryption (e.g., RSA and ECC), and how the NIST‑standardised post‑quantum cryptographic schemes offer resilient alternatives. We also discussed the practical challenges of implementing these algorithms, including performance and hardware considerations. The following paper presents a unified hardware architecture – KaLi – that supports both Kyber and Dilithium operations efficiently. Read: Aikata, A., A. C. Mert, M. Imran, S. Pagliarini and S. S. Roy ‘KaLi: A Crystal for post-quantum security using Kyber and Dilithium’, IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Paper 70(2) 2023, pp.747–758. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, focus on: how KaLi unifies key exchange and signature operations in a single architecture. What are the design choices and benefits the practical performance trade-offs. How do the ASIC and FPGA metrics (e.g., clock frequency, area footprint) reflect KaLi's suitability for real-world deployment? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue