# Hack it: Fractal tree
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/QVpaB/hack-it-fractal-tree

recursiveTree-Template In this exercise, we’ll use a basic fractal tree and add more detail to it. Start by downloading the template attached. Study and play around with the code so that you understand how the tree is formed. Steps to complete At the moment each sub-branch is 67% the length of its parent branch. Play around with this so that some branches are bigger and shorter. Give it a random range from 0.5 to 0.8. Don’t worry about calling the random() function again and again in your draw() loop. We’ve called the randomSeed() function in the setup() function so that you get always the same values within your sketch (ie your tree will look the same until you refresh the page). Try removing the randomSeed() function to see what happens. Lookup the randomSeed() function to see what it does. The angle of the next branch is now set to a static 45 degrees. Make this random as well and different on each side. Notice how my tree is asymmetrical? Make the trunk be dark brown and as you go up the branches they become a bit lighter. Near the top of the branch() function we check if the branch is smaller than a certain amount so that we know when to stop subdividing the branches and the recursive operation stops. Add an “else” part to this if-statement so that when the branch is too small to be further subdivided an leaf in the shape of an ellipse is drawn in it’s place. Make the leaf colors be interesting and plausible, not simply random, just like I did at the top. Advanced: Add wind to your sketch by adding a certain amount to your random angle within branch() using the noise() function. Knowing what you know now about particles, you could have leaves falling of the tree at random times! Hack it: Fractal tree recursiveTree-Template In this exercise, we’ll use a basic fractal tree and add more detail to it. Start by downloading the template attached. Study and play around with the code so that you understand how the tree is formed. Steps to complete At the moment each sub-branch is 67% the length of its parent branch. Play around with this so that some branches are bigger and shorter. Give it a random range from 0.5 to 0.8. Don’t worry about calling the random() function again and again in your draw() loop. We’ve called the randomSeed() function in the setup() function so that you get always the same values within your sketch (ie your tree will look the same until you refresh the page). Try removing the randomSeed() function to see what happens. Lookup the randomSeed() function to see what it does. The angle of the next branch is now set to a static 45 degrees. Make this random as well and different on each side. Notice how my tree is asymmetrical? Make the trunk be dark brown and as you go up the branches they become a bit lighter. Near the top of the branch() function we check if the branch is smaller than a certain amount so that we know when to stop subdividing the branches and the recursive operation stops. Add an “else” part to this if-statement so that when the branch is too small to be further subdivided an leaf in the shape of an ellipse is drawn in it’s place. Make the leaf colors be interesting and plausible, not simply random, just like I did at the top. Advanced: Add wind to your sketch by adding a certain amount to your random angle within branch() using the noise() function. Knowing what you know now about particles, you could have leaves falling of the tree at random times! Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue