# Peer review rubric
Reading•
. Duration: 20 minutes
20 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/8WiRP/peer-review-rubric

This course involves many peer review exercises in which you will apply the ideas you have learned in the course to computer systems that you know about. They will be similar to the questions in the coursework and exam. You will grade other students' work using the same rubric (mark scheme) that we will use to mark coursework and exams. That way you will get used to what we are looking for and learn to evaluate your own work and the work of others in the same way we evaluate you. This rubric is below. It consists of 4 criteria. Each one has a number of levels. Each criterion has a level 'yes' which means that the work has successfully achieved that criterion. This corresponds to a mark of 60-70% or a 2.1 classification. There is also a level "yes, but..." which means that there are some flaws, mistakes or elements missing in the description and a "yes, and..." which means that the work adds something new beyond what was taught, or brings together elements from different topics in new ways. The "Wow!" level represents truly exceptional work. It is reserved for advanced answers that go far beyond what we normally expect at first year undergraduate level. You should only award this level very rarely. 1. The work describes computer science concepts for this week This is the basic criterion, according to which the student has explained the relevant concepts for the week (they don't need to include everything that was taught in the week). No It doesn’t describe the concept, or describes it completely wrongly. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear. Yes I can understand the concepts from what I heard. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The description includes new ideas that I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem correct. Wow! This work clearly explains concepts in a way that goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 2. The work illustrates these ideas with an example This is also a basic criterion. The student needs to apply or illustrate the computer science ideas with an example. This criterion needs two things: describing the example and explaining how the ideas apply. No It doesn’t relate the example to the ideas or I can’t understand how the ideas apply to the example. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes I can understand the concepts apply to the example. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The examples are related to computer science concepts in new ways. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! The example is both clear and very advanced. It goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 3. The work explains how the computer system works This criterion goes into more depth, and involves explaining how the system works. This normally involves describing an example of the computer system in action and explaining how the computer science concepts apply. No It doesn’t explain how the computer system works or I can’t understand the explanation. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes I can understand what the computer system does in terms of the computer science concepts. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The description includes new ideas I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! This explanation goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 4. The work predicts how different technical choices or situations would affect a system No It doesn’t make predictions or I can’t understand the predictions. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes The computer science concepts are used to predict how different technical choices would affect the behaviour of the system, or how the system would respond in different situations. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The predictions include new ideas I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! This work shows a detailed, advanced and professional understanding that goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) Lesson 2.1 State Lesson 2.2 Modularity and applications Lesson 2.3 Summary Reading: Reading Peer review rubric . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Practice Assignment: Practice quiz – Peer review . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Peer-graded Assignment: An application . Duration: 3 hours 3h Review Your Peers: An application Discussion Prompt: Notional machines . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Graded Assignment: Summative quiz [001] – Topic 1 Submitted Video: Video Summary . Duration: 1 minute 1 min Peer review rubric This course involves many peer review exercises in which you will apply the ideas you have learned in the course to computer systems that you know about. They will be similar to the questions in the coursework and exam. You will grade other students' work using the same rubric (mark scheme) that we will use to mark coursework and exams. That way you will get used to what we are looking for and learn to evaluate your own work and the work of others in the same way we evaluate you. This rubric is below. It consists of 4 criteria. Each one has a number of levels. Each criterion has a level 'yes' which means that the work has successfully achieved that criterion. This corresponds to a mark of 60-70% or a 2.1 classification. There is also a level "yes, but..." which means that there are some flaws, mistakes or elements missing in the description and a "yes, and..." which means that the work adds something new beyond what was taught, or brings together elements from different topics in new ways. The "Wow!" level represents truly exceptional work. It is reserved for advanced answers that go far beyond what we normally expect at first year undergraduate level. You should only award this level very rarely. 1. The work describes computer science concepts for this week This is the basic criterion, according to which the student has explained the relevant concepts for the week (they don't need to include everything that was taught in the week). No It doesn’t describe the concept, or describes it completely wrongly. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear. Yes I can understand the concepts from what I heard. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The description includes new ideas that I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem correct. Wow! This work clearly explains concepts in a way that goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 2. The work illustrates these ideas with an example This is also a basic criterion. The student needs to apply or illustrate the computer science ideas with an example. This criterion needs two things: describing the example and explaining how the ideas apply. No It doesn’t relate the example to the ideas or I can’t understand how the ideas apply to the example. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes I can understand the concepts apply to the example. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The examples are related to computer science concepts in new ways. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! The example is both clear and very advanced. It goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 3. The work explains how the computer system works This criterion goes into more depth, and involves explaining how the system works. This normally involves describing an example of the computer system in action and explaining how the computer science concepts apply. No It doesn’t explain how the computer system works or I can’t understand the explanation. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes I can understand what the computer system does in terms of the computer science concepts. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The description includes new ideas I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! This explanation goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) 4. The work predicts how different technical choices or situations would affect a system No It doesn’t make predictions or I can’t understand the predictions. Yes, but … There are some mistakes or some bits aren’t clear, or the example was pretty much the same as what we saw in lectures. Yes The computer science concepts are used to predict how different technical choices would affect the behaviour of the system, or how the system would respond in different situations. Yes, and … I’ve learned something new. The predictions include new ideas I haven’t heard from class or new ways of linking ideas. I can understand these ideas and they seem right. Wow! This work shows a detailed, advanced and professional understanding that goes far beyond what I would expect from a first year undergraduate student. (NB this advanced category represents truly exceptional work, that we would expect to see only rarely.) Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue