# Creating my first Node.js web server
Video•
. Duration: 6 minutes
6 min - Summary

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/lecture/JHNKx/creating-my-first-node-js-web-server

Here is a summary of the text in 25 sentences:

1. The lab activity involved creating a web server and navigating through it to understand how HTTP works.
2. In an HTTP conversation, there is a client (usually a computer running a web browser) and a server (software running on a computer).
3. The client sends an HTTP request to the server with a URL, which requests a specific resource from the server.
4. The server processes the request and sends back an HTTP response containing the requested resource.
5. The response is received by the client and rendered in the browser.
6. In this lab activity, the computer was playing the role of an internet-facing web server for the labs.
7. When a user typed in a URL into their browser, it sent an HTTP request to the web application.
8. The web application handled the request and performed some methods on the response object.
9. These methods set the response code to 200, content type to text/plain, and sent the contents of the response as "hello world".
10. The client received the response and saw only the contents of the response in the browser.
11. However, other information such as status code and content type was also sent back but not visible in the browser.
12. To see this information, one can use the developer tools in the browser.
13. In Chrome, going to "More Tools" > "Developer Tools" allows access to the network tab.
14. The network tab shows the network traffic coming from the web server to the client.
15. Refreshing the page shows the resource called "localhost" was sent back with a status code of 200 and content type text/plain.
16. If a different resource is requested, such as putting "abc" in the URL, the request goes to the web server but the response remains the same ("hello world").
17. This is because the web server is always doing the same thing and sending back the same response.
18. In future labs, we will learn how to send back different responses when different resources are requested.
19. To create a Node.js web server, one needs to use the `create-server` function and pass an anonymous function as a parameter.
20. This anonymous function performs methods on the response object to set the response code, content type, and send the contents of the response.
21. The `create-server` function returns an HTTP server that can be used to handle incoming requests.
22. To create a new Node.js web server, one needs to use the `http.createServer()` method or `express.createServer()`.
23. Express is a popular framework for building web applications with Node.js.
24. In future labs, we will learn about Express and how to build web applications using it.
25. The goal of this lab activity is to understand the basics of HTTP, creating a web server, and sending responses in Node.js.

Note: I've omitted some details from the original text to condense it into 25 sentences while maintaining the main points.