# Accessibility in software design
Reading•
. Duration: 2 hours 40 minutes
2h 40m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/p3Kbz/accessibility-in-software-design

Accessibility is often best viewed through the lens of context. While guidelines provided by the WCAG and WAI provide generalisable features to include in our designs, the contextual implications can often help motivate us. Universal design principles for instance can be based around contextual cases of use. The following reading items will help to drive some of the more nuanced points home, that access can be very context specific. Clarkson, J., P. Langdon and P. Robinson, P. Designing accessible technology. (London: Springer, 2006) Part 1 1. The inclusive challenge: A multidisciplinary educational approach Part 2 11. Towards an interactive system eliciting narrative comprehension in children with autism: A longitudinal study Part 4 23. Away from home (public) toilet design: Identifying user wants, needs and aspirations This reading is in the Online Library in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Accessibility in software design Accessibility is often best viewed through the lens of context. While guidelines provided by the WCAG and WAI provide generalisable features to include in our designs, the contextual implications can often help motivate us. Universal design principles for instance can be based around contextual cases of use. The following reading items will help to drive some of the more nuanced points home, that access can be very context specific. Clarkson, J., P. Langdon and P. Robinson, P. Designing accessible technology. (London: Springer, 2006) Part 1 1. The inclusive challenge: A multidisciplinary educational approach Part 2 11. Towards an interactive system eliciting narrative comprehension in children with autism: A longitudinal study Part 4 23. Away from home (public) toilet design: Identifying user wants, needs and aspirations This reading is in the Online Library in the ProQuest Collection. Find out how to search for the book . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue