# Inclusive design principles
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 20 minutes
1h 20m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/dmN8t/inclusive-design-principles

The following reading will help you to understand some of the web content accessibility guidelines (WCAG) at more depth. Again, context drives design decisions over broader policy, but policies are often informed by lots of real world cases. The reading explores this from a pragmatic perspective, looking at solving problems before they become problems. Gilbert, R.M. Inclusive design for a digital world. (New York: Apress Publishing 2019) Chapter 8. This reading is available in the Online Library in the O'Reilly Collection . The links provided direct users to O'Reilly's main site rather than through UoL Online Library authentication. Without proper authentication you might struggle to get access. The correct process is to authenticate first through this link: https://onlinelibrary.london.ac.uk/resources/databases/oreilly and then you should be set. Inclusive design principles The following reading will help you to understand some of the web content accessibility guidelines (WCAG) at more depth. Again, context drives design decisions over broader policy, but policies are often informed by lots of real world cases. The reading explores this from a pragmatic perspective, looking at solving problems before they become problems. Gilbert, R.M. Inclusive design for a digital world. (New York: Apress Publishing 2019) Chapter 8. This reading is available in the Online Library in the O'Reilly Collection . The links provided direct users to O'Reilly's main site rather than through UoL Online Library authentication. Without proper authentication you might struggle to get access. The correct process is to authenticate first through this link: https://onlinelibrary.london.ac.uk/resources/databases/oreilly and then you should be set. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue