# Module syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2010-software-design-and-development/supplement/Q0Qh6/module-syllabus

/ 4 100% Page 1 of 4 CM2010 Software Design and Development Course Description This module aims to advance your software development skills so that you can write more robust and complicated programs. You will learn how to use a range of programming techniques that will allow you to deal with unwanted or unexpected events that might h appen when your application is running. You will use defensive coding to check data before processing it, and exception handling to gracefully manage unforeseen or unwanted occurrences. You will learn how to discuss program structure concerning cohesion (h ow to meaningfully organise code into modules) and coupling (how to define the interactions between different parts of the program). You will learn about test - driven development, where you write tests for your code, and write the code itself, in parallel. You will also learn how to use software versioning tools to manage a software project as it develops. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: • Write programs using variables, control flow and functions • Use defensive coding and exception handling techniques to prevent processing of invalid data and to handle unexpected events • Use version control tools to manage a codebase individually and collaboratively • Define test driven development and write unit tests • Assign different categories of module coupling and cohesion to a given program • Describe how user testing can be carried out and evaluated Textbook and Readings There are a variety of readings in the course, many taken from the IEEE library which you can access with your University online library account. There is no core textbook. Module syllabus / 4 100% Page 1 of 4 CM2010 Software Design and Development Course Description This module aims to advance your software development skills so that you can write more robust and complicated programs. You will learn how to use a range of programming techniques that will allow you to deal with unwanted or unexpected events that might h appen when your application is running. You will use defensive coding to check data before processing it, and exception handling to gracefully manage unforeseen or unwanted occurrences. You will learn how to discuss program structure concerning cohesion (h ow to meaningfully organise code into modules) and coupling (how to define the interactions between different parts of the program). You will learn about test - driven development, where you write tests for your code, and write the code itself, in parallel. You will also learn how to use software versioning tools to manage a software project as it develops. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: • Write programs using variables, control flow and functions • Use defensive coding and exception handling techniques to prevent processing of invalid data and to handle unexpected events • Use version control tools to manage a codebase individually and collaboratively • Define test driven development and write unit tests • Assign different categories of module coupling and cohesion to a given program • Describe how user testing can be carried out and evaluated Textbook and Readings There are a variety of readings in the course, many taken from the IEEE library which you can access with your University online library account. There is no core textbook. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue