# Looking inside applications
Reading•
. Duration: 20 minutes
20 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/DTR7y/looking-inside-applications

You need to know the tricks to see inside applications. On a Mac, applications are actually folders containing a lot of different files. The operating system makes these folders look like single files, so you can’t normally see inside them. So, if you want to look at the files that make up an application you need to go to the Applications folder and right click (or hold down Ctrl and click) on one of the application icons. This will bring up a menu in which one of the options is ‘Show Package Contents’. If you select this it will then show you all of the files that make up the application. Windows is less secretive; you can see the application folders without having to do anything special. Applications are normally stored in ‘C:\Program Files’. If you look in there you should see a folder for each of your applications. Inside each folder you will see all the files that make up the application, including an executable (.exe) file, resources files and libraries (.dll files). Have a look at the files for some of your applications and see what components they are made up of. Lesson 2.1 State Lesson 2.2 Modularity and applications Video: Video A notional machine: files . Duration: 6 minutes 6 min Practice Assignment: Practice quiz – A notional machine: Files . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Practice Assignment: Files . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Video: Video Modularity . Duration: 2 minutes 2 min Video: Video Applications . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Practice Assignment: Practice quiz - Applications . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Looking inside applications . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Video: Video Debugging . Duration: 6 minutes 6 min Practice Assignment: Practice quiz – Debugging an application problem . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Reading: Reading Modularity and applications – lecture summaries . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Lesson 2.3 Summary Looking inside applications You need to know the tricks to see inside applications. On a Mac, applications are actually folders containing a lot of different files. The operating system makes these folders look like single files, so you can’t normally see inside them. So, if you want to look at the files that make up an application you need to go to the Applications folder and right click (or hold down Ctrl and click) on one of the application icons. This will bring up a menu in which one of the options is ‘Show Package Contents’. If you select this it will then show you all of the files that make up the application. Windows is less secretive; you can see the application folders without having to do anything special. Applications are normally stored in ‘C:\Program Files’. If you look in there you should see a folder for each of your applications. Inside each folder you will see all the files that make up the application, including an executable (.exe) file, resources files and libraries (.dll files). Have a look at the files for some of your applications and see what components they are made up of. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue