# Activity – Reflecting on a presentation
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/x4Y5n/activity-reflecting-on-a-presentation

On the next page, you will watch a presentation with both good and bad elements, from yours truly! There are many caveats with remote presentations, synchronisation is difficult given latency and many of the techniques we discuss here are difficult if not impossible to implement. Even for an empirically rigorous, technical piece of work from an established scholar, you will notice I make lots of mistakes throughout and my presentation style is not always as effective as it could be. If you make mistakes, just try to keep going and following the guidelines we will cover in this topic. We are all human and presenting is a difficult skill to learn. Just be clear about what you are discussing (knowledge) and confident in your ability to speak about it. As you watch the video, make notes about the good and bad elements. There will be pop-ups as you go through with my own thoughts on how the presentation could be improved. Activity – Reflecting on a presentation On the next page, you will watch a presentation with both good and bad elements, from yours truly! There are many caveats with remote presentations, synchronisation is difficult given latency and many of the techniques we discuss here are difficult if not impossible to implement. Even for an empirically rigorous, technical piece of work from an established scholar, you will notice I make lots of mistakes throughout and my presentation style is not always as effective as it could be. If you make mistakes, just try to keep going and following the guidelines we will cover in this topic. We are all human and presenting is a difficult skill to learn. Just be clear about what you are discussing (knowledge) and confident in your ability to speak about it. As you watch the video, make notes about the good and bad elements. There will be pop-ups as you go through with my own thoughts on how the presentation could be improved. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue