# Installing conda locally
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2015-programming-with-data/supplement/IuRfQ/installing-conda-locally

We have designed this task to help you learn to install and set up Jupyter locally on your machine. A local installation of Jupyter gives you more control over your environment in configuring dependencies and installing libraries specific for working on different projects. Additionally, having a local setup allows you to work offline, giving you the flexibility to code without depending on internet access. these instructions to install conda using the terminal. Open the Anaconda Prompt (Windows) or Terminal (macOS/Linux). To check if conda is installed, type:conda --version This should display the installed version of conda. To create a new conda environment, use the following command:conda create -n myenv python=3.8 Replace myenv with the name you prefer for your environment (e.g. dp4ai as an acronym for Data Programming for Artificial Intelligence). To activate the newly created environment, use:conda activate dp4ai To deactivate the environment, type:conda deactivate Installing conda locally We have designed this task to help you learn to install and set up Jupyter locally on your machine. A local installation of Jupyter gives you more control over your environment in configuring dependencies and installing libraries specific for working on different projects. Additionally, having a local setup allows you to work offline, giving you the flexibility to code without depending on internet access. these instructions to install conda using the terminal. Open the Anaconda Prompt (Windows) or Terminal (macOS/Linux). To check if conda is installed, type:conda --version This should display the installed version of conda. To create a new conda environment, use the following command:conda create -n myenv python=3.8 Replace myenv with the name you prefer for your environment (e.g. dp4ai as an acronym for Data Programming for Artificial Intelligence). To activate the newly created environment, use:conda activate dp4ai To deactivate the environment, type:conda deactivate Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue