# Non-equivalence
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/rOHW9/non-equivalence

As we have seen in the previous video ('logical equivalence'), to prove that two propositions are equivalent, it suffices to build the truth table for each of the two propositions. If the truth values of these two propositions are the same (identical columns) then these propositions are equivalent. If there is a case where these propositions have different truth values, then they are not equivalent. For example: Let p and q be two propositions. Below is the truth table for p →q,¬p→¬q and q→p. p F F T T q F T F T ¬p T T F F ¬q T F T F p→q T T F T ¬p→¬q T F T T q→p T F T T We can clearly see that the columns for p→q and q→p are different, i.e. if p=F and q=T we see p→q=T whereas q→p=F. Hence, p→q and q→p are not equivalent. Now let's look at q→p and ¬p→¬q. We can clearly see that the columns for these propositions are identical,. Hence, these two propositions are equivalent. Lesson 3.2 Applications Discussion Prompt: Propositions and computer logic . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Video: Video Logical implication . Duration: 7 minutes 7 min Reading: Reading Logical implication . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Practice Assignment: Logical implication . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Logical equivalence . Duration: 6 minutes 6 min Reading: Reading Non-equivalence . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Practice Assignment: Logical equivalence . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Laws of propositional logic . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Practice Assignment: Laws of propositional logic . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Peer-graded Assignment: Propositional logic exercise . Duration: 1 hour 1h Review Your Peers: Propositional logic exercise Reading: Reading Propositional logic reading and practice exercises . Duration: 2 hours 2h Reading: Reading Topic 3 summary . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Lesson 3.3 Extra resources Lesson 3.4 Summative assessment Non-equivalence As we have seen in the previous video ('logical equivalence'), to prove that two propositions are equivalent, it suffices to build the truth table for each of the two propositions. If the truth values of these two propositions are the same (identical columns) then these propositions are equivalent. If there is a case where these propositions have different truth values, then they are not equivalent. For example: Let p and q be two propositions. Below is the truth table for p →q,¬p→¬q and q→p. p F F T T q F T F T ¬p T T F F ¬q T F T F p→q T T F T ¬p→¬q T F T T q→p T F T T We can clearly see that the columns for p→q and q→p are different, i.e. if p=F and q=T we see p→q=T whereas q→p=F. Hence, p→q and q→p are not equivalent. Now let's look at q→p and ¬p→¬q. We can clearly see that the columns for these propositions are identical,. Hence, these two propositions are equivalent. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue