# Gantt chart check-in/evaluation
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/3Zudo/gantt-chart-check-in-evaluation

In week 9 (Topic 5), we showed you how to make a Gantt chart to better organise your time during your project. Now would be a good opportunity to review your Gantt chart and reflect on how effective it has been up to this point. A Gantt chart, or other project management tools, should not be static documents. You should continually be updating and reorganising your chart to show progress on your project and to identify problems earlier. Consider the following as you review: Are you on target to meet the final project deadline? What adjustments are needed to ensure you complete on time? How effective has your chart been at keeping your project on track? Was your breakdown of tasks optimal? Did you pick the correct granularity of tasks? If you’ve slipped behind, how should you update your task list to meet the final deadline for the project? If you are running ahead of schedule, think about the opportunities that might now be afforded in terms of additional functionality or testing. Gantt chart check-in/evaluation In week 9 (Topic 5), we showed you how to make a Gantt chart to better organise your time during your project. Now would be a good opportunity to review your Gantt chart and reflect on how effective it has been up to this point. A Gantt chart, or other project management tools, should not be static documents. You should continually be updating and reorganising your chart to show progress on your project and to identify problems earlier. Consider the following as you review: Are you on target to meet the final project deadline? What adjustments are needed to ensure you complete on time? How effective has your chart been at keeping your project on track? Was your breakdown of tasks optimal? Did you pick the correct granularity of tasks? If you’ve slipped behind, how should you update your task list to meet the final deadline for the project? If you are running ahead of schedule, think about the opportunities that might now be afforded in terms of additional functionality or testing. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue