# Information security and cybersecurity management: a case study with SMEs in Portugal
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour 55 minutes
1h 55m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/T4wMq/information-security-and-cybersecurity-management-a-case-study-with-smes-in

Small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are vital to the economy, but they are also among the most vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. This reading presents a case study from Portugal, where a consortium of academic, consulting and business stakeholders helped 50 SMEs to implement an information security management approach based on the ISO/IEC standard. Read this article to understand how smaller organisations can successfully adapt cybersecurity frameworks: Antunes, M., Maximiano, M., Gomes, R. and D. Pinto ‘ Information security and cybersecurity management: A case study with SMEs in Portugal ’, Journal of Cybersecurity and Privacy 1(2), 2021, pp.219-238. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, consider: how to scale international standards like ISO 27001 to fit the needs of small organisations what organisational factors most influence the ability to implement cybersecurity controls what lessons can be drawn from this case to support SMEs in other contexts. This reading sets the stage for exploring how legal, professional and organisational responsibilities intersect with cybersecurity standards and practical implementation. Information security and cybersecurity management: a case study with SMEs in Portugal Small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are vital to the economy, but they are also among the most vulnerable to cybersecurity threats. This reading presents a case study from Portugal, where a consortium of academic, consulting and business stakeholders helped 50 SMEs to implement an information security management approach based on the ISO/IEC standard. Read this article to understand how smaller organisations can successfully adapt cybersecurity frameworks: Antunes, M., Maximiano, M., Gomes, R. and D. Pinto ‘ Information security and cybersecurity management: A case study with SMEs in Portugal ’, Journal of Cybersecurity and Privacy 1(2), 2021, pp.219-238. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . As you read, consider: how to scale international standards like ISO 27001 to fit the needs of small organisations what organisational factors most influence the ability to implement cybersecurity controls what lessons can be drawn from this case to support SMEs in other contexts. This reading sets the stage for exploring how legal, professional and organisational responsibilities intersect with cybersecurity standards and practical implementation. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue