# What have you learned?
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/vfdHr/what-have-you-learned

Well done, you have completed the fifth topic of this module! So far we have learned: the environmental impact of computing energy-efficient data centres renewable energy in technology. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Some example questions you might ask yourself are: ‘How confident am I with integrating sustainability into my software design practices?' and 'Can I evaluate the sustainability impacts of certain hardware and software?' Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas that you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: thinking about how you can use the practical skills we have taught you in your day-to-day career or studies scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. Best of luck with the rest of the module. What have you learned? Well done, you have completed the fifth topic of this module! So far we have learned: the environmental impact of computing energy-efficient data centres renewable energy in technology. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Some example questions you might ask yourself are: ‘How confident am I with integrating sustainability into my software design practices?' and 'Can I evaluate the sustainability impacts of certain hardware and software?' Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas that you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: thinking about how you can use the practical skills we have taught you in your day-to-day career or studies scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. Best of luck with the rest of the module. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue