# Transdisciplinary approach to global, ethical and legal problems
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/U5oHQ/transdisciplinary-approach-to-global-ethical-and-legal-problems

The fast-changing technology operating environment, in particular, the game-changing impact of AI, brings with it a continuous stream of new ethical and legal dilemmas which organisations need to navigate to stay in business. Ethical and legal dilemmas can be very complex and require a range of perspectives to address effectively. Bringing together professionals who can share viewpoints from different technical and non-technical disciplines to solve complex problems together is often described as transdisciplinary working. Transdisciplinary human teams are a great way to leverage new technologies to deliver the organisational strategy. They deliver enhanced and creative solutions to tricky dilemmas and are less prone to group think and blind spots in problem articulation and solution. They are also more likely to surface the impact on a fuller range of stakeholders and users of any solution proposed. Employers in the tech space increasingly look for transdisciplinary working skills in their new recruits and their aspiring leaders. You need to show that you can listen to others, identify the professional or cultural lenses or biases that you and others may bring to the situation, and that you can work effectively with colleagues who bring very different perspectives to dilemmas that you may face at work. You can practise your transdisciplinary skills at our regular University of London Careers Service webinars which focus on collaborative problem solving and transdisciplinary thinking. A sample webinar is available here: The Impact of AI on Tech Roles As you listen to the webinar take a transdisciplinary approach and consider the different lenses through which you may be viewing this content: Your academic lens – which technology specialism interests you most ? Your lived experience lens – where in the world are you now and what is your previous experience? Your career stage lens - how much work experience do you currently have; are you a career starter, career developer or a career changer? How might these different perspectives affect how you look at ethical and legal dilemmas in your professional life? If the link on this page is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Transdisciplinary approach to global, ethical and legal problems The fast-changing technology operating environment, in particular, the game-changing impact of AI, brings with it a continuous stream of new ethical and legal dilemmas which organisations need to navigate to stay in business. Ethical and legal dilemmas can be very complex and require a range of perspectives to address effectively. Bringing together professionals who can share viewpoints from different technical and non-technical disciplines to solve complex problems together is often described as transdisciplinary working. Transdisciplinary human teams are a great way to leverage new technologies to deliver the organisational strategy. They deliver enhanced and creative solutions to tricky dilemmas and are less prone to group think and blind spots in problem articulation and solution. They are also more likely to surface the impact on a fuller range of stakeholders and users of any solution proposed. Employers in the tech space increasingly look for transdisciplinary working skills in their new recruits and their aspiring leaders. You need to show that you can listen to others, identify the professional or cultural lenses or biases that you and others may bring to the situation, and that you can work effectively with colleagues who bring very different perspectives to dilemmas that you may face at work. You can practise your transdisciplinary skills at our regular University of London Careers Service webinars which focus on collaborative problem solving and transdisciplinary thinking. A sample webinar is available here: The Impact of AI on Tech Roles As you listen to the webinar take a transdisciplinary approach and consider the different lenses through which you may be viewing this content: Your academic lens – which technology specialism interests you most ? Your lived experience lens – where in the world are you now and what is your previous experience? Your career stage lens - how much work experience do you currently have; are you a career starter, career developer or a career changer? How might these different perspectives affect how you look at ethical and legal dilemmas in your professional life? If the link on this page is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue