# Topic 5 evaluation and summary
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/idKRC/topic-5-evaluation-and-summary

In this fifth topic of the module, you have looked at some initial plans for extending your chosen application. We have also introduced you to brainstorming your project ideas and planning your time while working on the project. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have carefully reviewed the project reading and are confident about what you need to do. You have taken an initial look at the mark scheme and have an overview of the standard required to score well in this project. You have explored all the example extensions from lesson 5.2 and thought about how they could be implemented in the template. You have watched the video ‘interview with the pro’ and have thought about what a professional career in software development entails. You have selected the project you want to complete. At this stage you should have chosen the application you want to continue working on. However, there are more example extensions in the topics that are to come. You may also want to take a look at these in advance to ensure you are happy with your choice. Topic 5 evaluation and summary In this fifth topic of the module, you have looked at some initial plans for extending your chosen application. We have also introduced you to brainstorming your project ideas and planning your time while working on the project. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have carefully reviewed the project reading and are confident about what you need to do. You have taken an initial look at the mark scheme and have an overview of the standard required to score well in this project. You have explored all the example extensions from lesson 5.2 and thought about how they could be implemented in the template. You have watched the video ‘interview with the pro’ and have thought about what a professional career in software development entails. You have selected the project you want to complete. At this stage you should have chosen the application you want to continue working on. However, there are more example extensions in the topics that are to come. You may also want to take a look at these in advance to ensure you are happy with your choice. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue