# Topic 2 evaluation and summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/nZfcd/topic-2-evaluation-and-summary

In this second topic of the module we have introduced you to the first of the case study applications that is going to form the basis of your project. We have also looked at accessing and manipulating the HTML DOM from p5.js to support some of the features of the application. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You understand the basics of the HTML Document Object Model and how it can be manipulated in JavaScript using p5.js. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the drawing application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the video ‘Interview with the student’ and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Topic 2 evaluation and summary In this second topic of the module we have introduced you to the first of the case study applications that is going to form the basis of your project. We have also looked at accessing and manipulating the HTML DOM from p5.js to support some of the features of the application. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You understand the basics of the HTML Document Object Model and how it can be manipulated in JavaScript using p5.js. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the drawing application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the video ‘Interview with the student’ and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue