# Reflection on interview with the student
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/Unq5J/reflection-on-interview-with-the-student

Now you have watched the interview with Evan, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Evan built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application or others? For instance: Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as the colour picker and line tool? Evan built both simple and advance tools. Can you do similar? If so, how would that help your planning? What would be required for implementing more complex p5.js features such as 3D? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? Consider the following: What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Evan talked about the things he would do differently and reflected on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help. regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of these things at the midterm or end of term assignments. Reflection on interview with the student Now you have watched the interview with Evan, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Evan built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application or others? For instance: Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as the colour picker and line tool? Evan built both simple and advance tools. Can you do similar? If so, how would that help your planning? What would be required for implementing more complex p5.js features such as 3D? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? Consider the following: What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Evan talked about the things he would do differently and reflected on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help. regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of these things at the midterm or end of term assignments. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue