# An introduction to IDS
Reading•
. Duration: 55 minutes
55 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/xRna4/an-introduction-to-ids

You’ve just seen how network and operating system (OS) layers talk to each other, and why that’s key to understanding modern security. Now let’s zoom in on how we spot threats. This reading introduces Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) and the different ways they try to catch suspicious activity as it happens. Read: Wang, S., C. Xia and T. Wang ‘A novel intrusion detector based on deep learning hybrid methods’, 2019 IEEE 5th International Conference on Big Data Security on Cloud (BigDataSecurity), IEEE International Conference on High Performance and Smart Computing, (HPSC) and IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Data and Security (IDS) (Washington, DC: IEEE, 2019), pp.300–305. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, think about: what makes hybrid detection methods stronger than using just one technique if these systems still work well in big, messy environments like the cloud whether there are trade-offs in making them smarter and faster. An introduction to IDS You’ve just seen how network and operating system (OS) layers talk to each other, and why that’s key to understanding modern security. Now let’s zoom in on how we spot threats. This reading introduces Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) and the different ways they try to catch suspicious activity as it happens. Read: Wang, S., C. Xia and T. Wang ‘A novel intrusion detector based on deep learning hybrid methods’, 2019 IEEE 5th International Conference on Big Data Security on Cloud (BigDataSecurity), IEEE International Conference on High Performance and Smart Computing, (HPSC) and IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Data and Security (IDS) (Washington, DC: IEEE, 2019), pp.300–305. for the article in the Online Library . As you read, think about: what makes hybrid detection methods stronger than using just one technique if these systems still work well in big, messy environments like the cloud whether there are trade-offs in making them smarter and faster. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue