# Collecting a dataset
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/GGTgR/collecting-a-dataset

You now need to work on your main exercise for this topic: collecting a data set of your own and training a model. What you need to do is: Choose a task that you want the machine learning algorithm to learn. That will be a classification task: putting images into classes. Choose 2 or 3 classes appropriate to your task and that you think machine learning will be able to distinguish. Collect data for each task (between 20 and 40 examples of each class should work). Each example should be an image, you could take photographs yourself or use existing images. Divide your dataset into a training and testing set. Use the plugin in the next activity to train a model on your dataset, in the same way as you have trained with the datasets we gave you last week. Use your testing set to evaluate how well your classifier works. How many examples did it get right? If necessary try to improve the result by collecting more data, or maybe changing the tasks slightly. After the main exercise you will be asked to reflect on your results. Lesson 20.1 Your data science project Practice Assignment: Preparing for your machine learning project . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Video: Video Collecting a dataset . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Discussion Prompt: Advice on data collection . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Interview: Advice for your first data science project . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Collecting a dataset . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Ungraded Plugin: Training a model using your dataset . Duration: 3 hours 3h Practice Assignment: Reflecting on your project . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Discussion Prompt: Your machine learning project . Duration: 1 hour 1h Lesson 20.2 Summary Collecting a dataset You now need to work on your main exercise for this topic: collecting a data set of your own and training a model. What you need to do is: Choose a task that you want the machine learning algorithm to learn. That will be a classification task: putting images into classes. Choose 2 or 3 classes appropriate to your task and that you think machine learning will be able to distinguish. Collect data for each task (between 20 and 40 examples of each class should work). Each example should be an image, you could take photographs yourself or use existing images. Divide your dataset into a training and testing set. Use the plugin in the next activity to train a model on your dataset, in the same way as you have trained with the datasets we gave you last week. Use your testing set to evaluate how well your classifier works. How many examples did it get right? If necessary try to improve the result by collecting more data, or maybe changing the tasks slightly. After the main exercise you will be asked to reflect on your results. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue