# Trying different datasets
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/supplement/yizmr/trying-different-datasets

In the next exercise you will be practicing training and testing machine learning with some example datasets (at the bottom of this page). Do do this you will need to train and test by loading images from a file, not from a video. To do that you need to switch from video to file: Click the upload button shown below to load in some files for a particular class. Once you have loaded the training data you can click "Load an image to classify" to load a new test image to classify. Each zip file below contains a folder "Train" with training data and another one "Test" with testing data. Each of the folders contains sub-folders for each class. Load the training data for each class into the training set, and then have the system classify each image in the testing set. See how many it gets right. Each of these examples is a bit different and some are likely to work better than others. See which ones work well and which do not. Can you try to understand why some work better than others? Which examples are particularly difficult? Could you suggest ways of improving the results? Exercise 1 ZIP File Exercise 2 ZIP File Exercise 3 ZIP File Exercise 4 ZIP File Lesson 19.0 Introduction Lesson 19.1 Testing Video: Video Testing . Duration: 2 minutes 2 min Reading: Reading Trying different datasets . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Ungraded Plugin: Trying different datasets . Duration: 2 hours 2h Reading: Reading Evaluating the four datasets . Duration: 15 minutes 15 min Discussion Prompt: How does machine learning go wrong? . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Problems with machine learning: overfitting . Duration: 3 minutes 3 min Lesson 19.2 Societal Impact of Machine Learning Trying different datasets In the next exercise you will be practicing training and testing machine learning with some example datasets (at the bottom of this page). Do do this you will need to train and test by loading images from a file, not from a video. To do that you need to switch from video to file: Click the upload button shown below to load in some files for a particular class. Once you have loaded the training data you can click "Load an image to classify" to load a new test image to classify. Each zip file below contains a folder "Train" with training data and another one "Test" with testing data. Each of the folders contains sub-folders for each class. Load the training data for each class into the training set, and then have the system classify each image in the testing set. See how many it gets right. Each of these examples is a bit different and some are likely to work better than others. See which ones work well and which do not. Can you try to understand why some work better than others? Which examples are particularly difficult? Could you suggest ways of improving the results? Exercise 1 ZIP File Exercise 2 ZIP File Exercise 3 ZIP File Exercise 4 ZIP File Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue