# Reflect on your learning
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-1/supplement/mE3bv/reflect-on-your-learning

Congratulations for getting this far in the course. So far, you have explored the following: Setting up your development toolkit: You have learned to set up the programming toolkit, enabling you to edit and run programs efficiently. Drawing with simple shapes and 2D coordinates: You have explored using built-in p5.js drawing functions to create simple shapes such as lines, ellipses, and rectangles on the screen. This involved understanding 2D coordinates and how to position shapes accurately. Sleuth: You were introduced to Sleuth and should have completed all the 101 cases. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. An example question might be – ‘How comfortable am I with setting up and using the development environment?’ or ‘How do I feel about my ability to use shapes and the coordinate system in the p5.js library?’ Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. Best of luck with the rest of the course. Lesson 1.2 Introduction to Sleuth Lesson 1.3 Code Philosophy Lesson 1.4 About your assessments Reading: Reading Information about your assessments . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Reflect on your learning . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reflect on your learning Congratulations for getting this far in the course. So far, you have explored the following: Setting up your development toolkit: You have learned to set up the programming toolkit, enabling you to edit and run programs efficiently. Drawing with simple shapes and 2D coordinates: You have explored using built-in p5.js drawing functions to create simple shapes such as lines, ellipses, and rectangles on the screen. This involved understanding 2D coordinates and how to position shapes accurately. Sleuth: You were introduced to Sleuth and should have completed all the 101 cases. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. An example question might be – ‘How comfortable am I with setting up and using the development environment?’ or ‘How do I feel about my ability to use shapes and the coordinate system in the p5.js library?’ Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. Best of luck with the rest of the course. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue