# Reviewing your programming assignment
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2015-programming-with-data/supplement/ZkKb0/reviewing-your-programming-assignment

Task: Use this checklist to make sure you’ve completed all of the correct steps while completing the programming activity on gathering and storing data from the web. Examine the data: Do the column values have the data that you expected to see? Did you have to write additional parsers to extract the data? Does the data belong to the right data types? Are numeric values represented as numbers, text as strings and multi-dimensional values as objects? Do you need to write additional functions and apply them as a map? (Refer to in-class activities). Once, you had all the data points in right format, did you save it to a file? Was it a CSV or a JSON file? How did you use pandas to explore the data? Did you try to view specific snippets of data (specific columns and rows) that could be interesting for analysis (e.g. a recurring value)? Did you try sorting the sort data? Were there errors in the data – missing fields, not a number (NaN) values? Reviewing your programming assignment Task: Use this checklist to make sure you’ve completed all of the correct steps while completing the programming activity on gathering and storing data from the web. Examine the data: Do the column values have the data that you expected to see? Did you have to write additional parsers to extract the data? Does the data belong to the right data types? Are numeric values represented as numbers, text as strings and multi-dimensional values as objects? Do you need to write additional functions and apply them as a map? (Refer to in-class activities). Once, you had all the data points in right format, did you save it to a file? Was it a CSV or a JSON file? How did you use pandas to explore the data? Did you try to view specific snippets of data (specific columns and rows) that could be interesting for analysis (e.g. a recurring value)? Did you try sorting the sort data? Were there errors in the data – missing fields, not a number (NaN) values? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue