# Topic 4 summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/KULM4/topic-4-summary

This topic has focused on the foundations of secure application development and why application security plays a vital role in protecting modern systems. So far, you have explored: application vulnerabilities. You have looked at the OWASP Top 10, including SQL injection, broken access control and insecure error handling and why they matter in development secure coding principles. You have practised key methods such as input validation, least privilege, secure file handling and safe logging/debugging to reduce vulnerabilities testing and debugging. You have examined SAST, DAST and black-/grey-box testing, and how debugging and logging practices can either enhance or weaken security. By looking at real-world examples and completing interactive activities, you are mastering how to put theory into context, which is reinforcing your understanding of how security should be part of the entire software development lifecycle. Topic 4 summary This topic has focused on the foundations of secure application development and why application security plays a vital role in protecting modern systems. So far, you have explored: application vulnerabilities. You have looked at the OWASP Top 10, including SQL injection, broken access control and insecure error handling and why they matter in development secure coding principles. You have practised key methods such as input validation, least privilege, secure file handling and safe logging/debugging to reduce vulnerabilities testing and debugging. You have examined SAST, DAST and black-/grey-box testing, and how debugging and logging practices can either enhance or weaken security. By looking at real-world examples and completing interactive activities, you are mastering how to put theory into context, which is reinforcing your understanding of how security should be part of the entire software development lifecycle. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue