# Further reading for this topic
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/6l4WB/further-reading-for-this-topic

When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about any of the content covered, we recommend the following texts. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. Tatipamula et al. If you are interested to know more about internet architecture read Chapter 3, Internet architecture If you are interested to know more about Transport layer protocols, read Chapter 2, 2.1 Transmission control protocol up to 2.2 User datagram protocol If you are interested to know more about IPV6, read Chapter 11, IP version 6 If you are interested to know more about security, read Chapter 13, IP network security . Does the above reading give you comfort that networks are based on robust and secure protocols that are ready for the future, or that they are a complex and fragile collection of protocols? Further reading for this topic When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about any of the content covered, we recommend the following texts. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. Tatipamula et al. If you are interested to know more about internet architecture read Chapter 3, Internet architecture If you are interested to know more about Transport layer protocols, read Chapter 2, 2.1 Transmission control protocol up to 2.2 User datagram protocol If you are interested to know more about IPV6, read Chapter 11, IP version 6 If you are interested to know more about security, read Chapter 13, IP network security . Does the above reading give you comfort that networks are based on robust and secure protocols that are ready for the future, or that they are a complex and fragile collection of protocols? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue