# Congratulations on completing this module!
Reading•
. Duration: 5 minutes
5 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/ItoVk/congratulations-on-completing-this-module

Well done! You have finished the Databases, Networks and the Web module. You have covered a lot in this module, so you should be proud of yourself for completing it. By now, you know how to develop a dynamic web application with Node.js and Express. You know how to design and create a relational database in MySQL Shell and then access the database for performing CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations both from MySQL and also from within your Node.js middleware file. You understand how to secure your web applications and data. You are also familiar with some databases, web and networking concepts including TCP/IP model and internet protocol stack. You have answered over a hundred quiz questions, read hundreds of words of lab instructions and watched many videos! I hope you have learned a lot and enjoyed this module. Good luck with the rest of your studies and your future job hunt, if that is what you would like to do next. Wishing you all the best, Dr Elaheh Homayounvala and the team! Congratulations on completing this module! Well done! You have finished the Databases, Networks and the Web module. You have covered a lot in this module, so you should be proud of yourself for completing it. By now, you know how to develop a dynamic web application with Node.js and Express. You know how to design and create a relational database in MySQL Shell and then access the database for performing CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations both from MySQL and also from within your Node.js middleware file. You understand how to secure your web applications and data. You are also familiar with some databases, web and networking concepts including TCP/IP model and internet protocol stack. You have answered over a hundred quiz questions, read hundreds of words of lab instructions and watched many videos! I hope you have learned a lot and enjoyed this module. Good luck with the rest of your studies and your future job hunt, if that is what you would like to do next. Wishing you all the best, Dr Elaheh Homayounvala and the team! Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue