# Topic 8 summary
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/cI0mf/topic-8-summary

In this eighth topic of the module, you have looked at some additional JavaScript language techniques that you may find useful in your project and that will increase your knowledge as a programmer. We have looked at additional debugging techniques that will help you to find more complex issues with your code as it grows in complexity. Finally, you have also reviewed your previous time planning and completed your second project log. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You understand the principles of callbacks and how they are used in JavaScript. You should now be able to review their usage in the templates and understand how they have been used. You should comprehend the difference between synchronous and asynchronous code. You will have experimented with using breakpoints and your own code. You may have used them to solve bugs already. You have completed your second project log. Reflecting on what went well from the first log and how you are going to address any issues. At this stage you should have a solid idea of where you are going with your project and be working on the extensions. Use the material from this topic to ensure you have an effective code structure. Topic 8 summary In this eighth topic of the module, you have looked at some additional JavaScript language techniques that you may find useful in your project and that will increase your knowledge as a programmer. We have looked at additional debugging techniques that will help you to find more complex issues with your code as it grows in complexity. Finally, you have also reviewed your previous time planning and completed your second project log. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You understand the principles of callbacks and how they are used in JavaScript. You should now be able to review their usage in the templates and understand how they have been used. You should comprehend the difference between synchronous and asynchronous code. You will have experimented with using breakpoints and your own code. You may have used them to solve bugs already. You have completed your second project log. Reflecting on what went well from the first log and how you are going to address any issues. At this stage you should have a solid idea of where you are going with your project and be working on the extensions. Use the material from this topic to ensure you have an effective code structure. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue