# Problem sheet
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-discrete-mathematics/supplement/rnD1o/problem-sheet

Please complete the following exercises: Question 1 Which of the following statements are propositions: 2+2=4 2+2=5 x 2 +2=11 x+y>0 This coffee is strong Question 2 Let s and i be the following propositions: s:“stocks are increasing” i:“interest rates are steady” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: Stocks are increasing but interest rates are steady Neither are stocks increasing nor are interest rates steady Question 3 Let h, s and r be the following three propositions: h:“It is hot” s:“It is sunny” r:“It is raining” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: It is not hot but it is sunny It is neither hot nor sunny It is either hot and sunny or it is raining It is sunny or it is raining but not both Question 4 Let l denote one of the letters in the word “software”. The following propositions relate to l : p : “ l is a vowel”; q : “ l comes after the letter k in the alphabet”. Use the listing method to specify the truth sets corresponding to each of the following statements: ¬q p∧¬q ¬p∨q Question 5 Let p and q be two propositions. Construct a truth table to show the truth value of each of the following logical statements: p∨q ¬p∨¬q p∧q ¬(p∧q) What can we say about the following two statements: ¬p∨¬q and ¬(p∧q)? Question 6 Let h, s and r be the following three propositions: h:“It is hot” s:“It is sunny” r:“It is raining” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: It is sunny or it is raining but not both It is hot only if it is sunny It is hot only if it is sunny and not raining. Video: Video Introduction to propositional logic . Duration: 2 minutes 2 min Discussion Prompt: What do you understand by a logical statement? . Duration: 20 minutes 20 min Video: Video Propositions . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Practice Assignment: Propositions . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Truth tables and truth sets . Duration: 5 minutes 5 min Practice Assignment: Truth tables and truth sets . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Video: Video Compound propositions . Duration: 9 minutes 9 min Practice Assignment: Compound propositions . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Reading: Reading Problem sheet . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Problem sheet solutions . Duration: 10 minutes 10 min Reading: Reading Topic 3 essential reading . Duration: 30 minutes 30 min Problem sheet Please complete the following exercises: Question 1 Which of the following statements are propositions: 2+2=4 2+2=5 x 2 +2=11 x+y>0 This coffee is strong Question 2 Let s and i be the following propositions: s:“stocks are increasing” i:“interest rates are steady” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: Stocks are increasing but interest rates are steady Neither are stocks increasing nor are interest rates steady Question 3 Let h, s and r be the following three propositions: h:“It is hot” s:“It is sunny” r:“It is raining” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: It is not hot but it is sunny It is neither hot nor sunny It is either hot and sunny or it is raining It is sunny or it is raining but not both Question 4 Let l denote one of the letters in the word “software”. The following propositions relate to l : p : “ l is a vowel”; q : “ l comes after the letter k in the alphabet”. Use the listing method to specify the truth sets corresponding to each of the following statements: ¬q p∧¬q ¬p∨q Question 5 Let p and q be two propositions. Construct a truth table to show the truth value of each of the following logical statements: p∨q ¬p∨¬q p∧q ¬(p∧q) What can we say about the following two statements: ¬p∨¬q and ¬(p∧q)? Question 6 Let h, s and r be the following three propositions: h:“It is hot” s:“It is sunny” r:“It is raining” Write each of the following sentences symbolically: It is sunny or it is raining but not both It is hot only if it is sunny It is hot only if it is sunny and not raining. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue