# Case study 2: music visualiser
Reading•
. Duration: 2 hours 30 minutes
2h 30m

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/06kJT/case-study-2-music-visualiser

In this case study you will be completing a simple music visualisation program that contains three separate visualisations. To turn the sound into something that can be visualised, p5.js provides a fast Fourier transform (FFT) object. For this exercise you don’t need to be able to understand the full technicalities of the FFT object or its methods. However, in putting this case study together we have used the following methods: FFT.analyze() returns an array of 1,024 values between 0 and 255. Each value represents the amplitude (loudness) of a small frequency range (pitch of the sound). FFT.waveform() returns an array of 1,024 values between –1 and 1. Each value represents the amplitude of the sound for a tiny portion of time. FFT.energy(freq1, [freq2]) returns the volume of the sound at a frequency range specified by the freq1 and freq2 parameter. You can specify freq1 as a number, or p5.js provides strings for common values such as “bass” and “treble”, and leave freq2 empty. Tasks the music visualiser project template below and look over the code. musicVis template ZIP File Playback and fullscreen In the ControlsAndInput constructor function (in the controlsAndInput.js file) complete this.mousePressed(). Using the playbackButton object, check if the mouse click is on the play button (check out the PlaybackButton constructor function and find the method which does this). When you have called this method, clicking the playback button should start the music and display a visualisation. If the click isn’t on the playback button, toggle the display between window and full screen (check out the p5.js documentation on how to do this). Visualisation menu In the ControlsAndInput constructor function, complete this.menu(). Write a for loop that iterates over the array stored in the visuals property of the visualisations object, which itself is stored in the global vis variable declared in sketch.js, writing each visualisation name to the screen. You can check if your menu is displayed correctly by pressing the space bar while the app is running. When complete it should look like the following: Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the menu items displayed. The text is a numbered list that reads; ‘Select a visualisation: 1: spectrum 2: wavepattern 3: needles’. Spectrum analyser Take a look at the Spectrum() constructor function. The fast Fourier transform analyse function (i.e. p5.FFT.analyse()) returns an array of amplitude values for 1,024 audible frequency values. The amplitude value is between 0 and 255. The visualisation draws a rectangle for each of these frequencies and the height of the rectangle is determined by the amplitude value for that frequency. Change the visualisation so that it is horizontal not vertical. Therefore, the bars emerge from the left-hand side of the screen, not from the bottom as in the following image. You should do this without using the rotate() function. Change the colour of each bar such that it gradually changes from green to red based on the amplitude value. For example: An amplitude value of 0 the colour values are R:0, G:255 and B:0, An amplitude value of 127 colour values are R:127, G:127 and B:0, An amplitude value of 255 colour values are R:255, G:0 and B: 0. HINT: You will need to map the amplitude so that smaller values are more green. The red channel doesn’t need to be mapped; you can use the raw amplitude value. Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the spectrum analyser view displayed. Needle plots The Needles constructor function draws a visualisation that displays volume values for four frequency bands: bass, mid-low, mid-high and treble. When it is complete it looks like the image below: Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the four needle plot views displayed. All the trigonometry has been done for you! Within the needles.js file, complete the nested for loop in the this.draw() function. Assign values to the x, y, w and h variables so the plot is drawn at the right location and correct size. On line 49 call the this.ticks(centreX, bottomY, freqLabel) function, correctly specifying the arguments. This will add the ticks to the graph. The comments above the ticks function should help you work out what each parameter does. On line 54 call the this.needle(energy, centreX, bottomY) function, specifying the correct parameters. To get full marks on the needles display your output should look exactly the same as the image and resize correctly when switching between full screen and windowed modes. When you have completed the case study Upload your completed drawing app sketch for peer review, where you will get feedback on your progress and will be able to give feedback to others. This will give you a good idea on whether you have fully understood the tasks. The peer review activity for uploading is at the start of next week’s content. Case study 2: music visualiser In this case study you will be completing a simple music visualisation program that contains three separate visualisations. To turn the sound into something that can be visualised, p5.js provides a fast Fourier transform (FFT) object. For this exercise you don’t need to be able to understand the full technicalities of the FFT object or its methods. However, in putting this case study together we have used the following methods: FFT.analyze() returns an array of 1,024 values between 0 and 255. Each value represents the amplitude (loudness) of a small frequency range (pitch of the sound). FFT.waveform() returns an array of 1,024 values between –1 and 1. Each value represents the amplitude of the sound for a tiny portion of time. FFT.energy(freq1, [freq2]) returns the volume of the sound at a frequency range specified by the freq1 and freq2 parameter. You can specify freq1 as a number, or p5.js provides strings for common values such as “bass” and “treble”, and leave freq2 empty. Tasks the music visualiser project template below and look over the code. musicVis template ZIP File Playback and fullscreen In the ControlsAndInput constructor function (in the controlsAndInput.js file) complete this.mousePressed(). Using the playbackButton object, check if the mouse click is on the play button (check out the PlaybackButton constructor function and find the method which does this). When you have called this method, clicking the playback button should start the music and display a visualisation. If the click isn’t on the playback button, toggle the display between window and full screen (check out the p5.js documentation on how to do this). Visualisation menu In the ControlsAndInput constructor function, complete this.menu(). Write a for loop that iterates over the array stored in the visuals property of the visualisations object, which itself is stored in the global vis variable declared in sketch.js, writing each visualisation name to the screen. You can check if your menu is displayed correctly by pressing the space bar while the app is running. When complete it should look like the following: Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the menu items displayed. The text is a numbered list that reads; ‘Select a visualisation: 1: spectrum 2: wavepattern 3: needles’. Spectrum analyser Take a look at the Spectrum() constructor function. The fast Fourier transform analyse function (i.e. p5.FFT.analyse()) returns an array of amplitude values for 1,024 audible frequency values. The amplitude value is between 0 and 255. The visualisation draws a rectangle for each of these frequencies and the height of the rectangle is determined by the amplitude value for that frequency. Change the visualisation so that it is horizontal not vertical. Therefore, the bars emerge from the left-hand side of the screen, not from the bottom as in the following image. You should do this without using the rotate() function. Change the colour of each bar such that it gradually changes from green to red based on the amplitude value. For example: An amplitude value of 0 the colour values are R:0, G:255 and B:0, An amplitude value of 127 colour values are R:127, G:127 and B:0, An amplitude value of 255 colour values are R:255, G:0 and B: 0. HINT: You will need to map the amplitude so that smaller values are more green. The red channel doesn’t need to be mapped; you can use the raw amplitude value. Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the spectrum analyser view displayed. Needle plots The Needles constructor function draws a visualisation that displays volume values for four frequency bands: bass, mid-low, mid-high and treble. When it is complete it looks like the image below: Description: A screenshot of the music visualiser application with the four needle plot views displayed. All the trigonometry has been done for you! Within the needles.js file, complete the nested for loop in the this.draw() function. Assign values to the x, y, w and h variables so the plot is drawn at the right location and correct size. On line 49 call the this.ticks(centreX, bottomY, freqLabel) function, correctly specifying the arguments. This will add the ticks to the graph. The comments above the ticks function should help you work out what each parameter does. On line 54 call the this.needle(energy, centreX, bottomY) function, specifying the correct parameters. To get full marks on the needles display your output should look exactly the same as the image and resize correctly when switching between full screen and windowed modes. When you have completed the case study Upload your completed drawing app sketch for peer review, where you will get feedback on your progress and will be able to give feedback to others. This will give you a good idea on whether you have fully understood the tasks. The peer review activity for uploading is at the start of next week’s content. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue