# Making your own sound composition
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/DRu7H/making-your-own-sound-composition

In the video on the previous page Simon showed you how to load sound files into your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources on the previous page or from here: 3.201 ZIP File You will find the p5.js sound documentation helpful while working with the library. To finish this sketch complete the following steps: Create the isInitalised global variable, setting its value to false initially. Use this to draw a message to the screen when false and to start playback on the first key press when the sketch is run. Alter the rate argument of the loop method to explore what happens to the sound playback, you will also need to set a start time. You can set this to zero. Use the mouse x position and the map function to change the playback rate based on the mouse position when playback is started. Pause the sound when the space button is pressed. You will need to add a condition your keyPressed function that checks for the space button. To allow for playback to be restarted, nest a further conditional as Simon shows in the video. Add an anonymous function to the call to loadSound which stops playback until the file is fully loaded. When you have finished your sketch, explore other methods provided by the sound library. If you want to use a different sound file you can search here for freely available sounds. If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Making your own sound composition In the video on the previous page Simon showed you how to load sound files into your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources on the previous page or from here: 3.201 ZIP File You will find the p5.js sound documentation helpful while working with the library. To finish this sketch complete the following steps: Create the isInitalised global variable, setting its value to false initially. Use this to draw a message to the screen when false and to start playback on the first key press when the sketch is run. Alter the rate argument of the loop method to explore what happens to the sound playback, you will also need to set a start time. You can set this to zero. Use the mouse x position and the map function to change the playback rate based on the mouse position when playback is started. Pause the sound when the space button is pressed. You will need to add a condition your keyPressed function that checks for the space button. To allow for playback to be restarted, nest a further conditional as Simon shows in the video. Add an anonymous function to the call to loadSound which stops playback until the file is fully loaded. When you have finished your sketch, explore other methods provided by the sound library. If you want to use a different sound file you can search here for freely available sounds. If these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue