# Playing with amplitude
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/evKIR/playing-with-amplitude

In this video Simon showed you the basics of amplitude and how to alter the volume of your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources or from here: 3.202 ZIP File To finish the sketch, complete the following steps: Create an amplitude global variable and set its initial value to be a new p5 amplitude object in setup. Inside the else if condition in the draw function create a new variable a and set it to be equal to the level of amplitude. Output this to the screen using text() initially but replace this with an ellipse that changes size based on the amplitude. Use the map function to scale the ellipse. Create a global array amplitudes and set 512 initial values to be 0. In draw push the current amplitude to the end of the amplitudes array and remove the first value using shift. Display the amplitudes array as a series of ellipses across the screen. Again, use the map function to scale the ellipses Change the ellipses to vertexes using beginShape() and endShape() When you have finished, think about other forms of animation you could design using the amplitude of the sound file. Playing with amplitude In this video Simon showed you the basics of amplitude and how to alter the volume of your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources or from here: 3.202 ZIP File To finish the sketch, complete the following steps: Create an amplitude global variable and set its initial value to be a new p5 amplitude object in setup. Inside the else if condition in the draw function create a new variable a and set it to be equal to the level of amplitude. Output this to the screen using text() initially but replace this with an ellipse that changes size based on the amplitude. Use the map function to scale the ellipse. Create a global array amplitudes and set 512 initial values to be 0. In draw push the current amplitude to the end of the amplitudes array and remove the first value using shift. Display the amplitudes array as a series of ellipses across the screen. Again, use the map function to scale the ellipses Change the ellipses to vertexes using beginShape() and endShape() When you have finished, think about other forms of animation you could design using the amplitude of the sound file. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue