# Reflection on interview with the student
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/O9Lwq/reflection-on-interview-with-the-student

Now you have watched the interview with Taylor, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Taylor built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application, or others? Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as adding controls to the music visualiser? Taylor showed different ways of manipulating the waveform. Can you come up with others? Taylors application used the camera, could you incorporate it or the microphone into your application? How would you handle it if those devices aren’t available? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Taylor talked about the things he would do differently and reflected on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of the above as part of your midterm or end-of-term assessments. Reflection on interview with the student Now you have watched the interview with Taylor, it is worth taking some time to reflect upon the progress you have made so far with your own project. As you write your notes on the interview, consider the following: Your design Do any of the features Taylor built into his application inspire you to add features to your own implementation of the drawing application, or others? Do you want to redesign some of the core application functionality, such as adding controls to the music visualiser? Taylor showed different ways of manipulating the waveform. Can you come up with others? Taylors application used the camera, could you incorporate it or the microphone into your application? How would you handle it if those devices aren’t available? Planning In your midterm assignment you will be asked to detail your implementation plan. How can you maximise the benefit of this process? What planning techniques can you use to support the implementation of more advanced features? How might brainstorming and iterating different designs result in a better outcome for your project? How are you going to assess current progress? How will you know you are on target to complete on time and to the required standard? Evaluation In the video, Taylor talked about the things he would do differently and reflected on what he had achieved with his project. You will be asked to do the same when you submit your final application. It’s a good idea to start keeping track of your thinking and progress now, as this will help with that process. The things you should be keeping track of are: brainstorming designs and sketches sources of inspiration and technical help regular logging of progress. We will ask you to upload all of the above as part of your midterm or end-of-term assessments. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue