# Playing with frequency
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/H6Qu2/playing-with-frequency

In this video Simon showed you the basics of frequency and how to alter the volume of your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources or from here: 3.203 ZIP File To finish the sketch, complete the following steps, you will want to read the documentation on the FFT method: Inspect the code carefully, it is similar to the amplitude example. Create a global variable called fft. In setup set fft to be equal to an FFT object. In the else if condition of the draw function called the analyse method of fft and store it in a new variable called freqs. When you have done this, freqs should have 1024 elements. Draw the values in freqs to the screen using a for loop. Draw vertical lines for each element of the array. Using an ellipse output the low frequencies of the sound. Using the getEnergy method from fft pass in the argument “bass” and store in a variable called energy. Use the energy variable to set the width and height of the ellipse. Replicate the above step for other energy bands, such as “highMid”. Experiment with the sketch, try different tracks and see the effect. You can also attempt to create different animations from the ones Simon showed you. Playing with frequency In this video Simon showed you the basics of frequency and how to alter the volume of your p5.js sketches. along with the video and complete the template. You can download it from the video resources or from here: 3.203 ZIP File To finish the sketch, complete the following steps, you will want to read the documentation on the FFT method: Inspect the code carefully, it is similar to the amplitude example. Create a global variable called fft. In setup set fft to be equal to an FFT object. In the else if condition of the draw function called the analyse method of fft and store it in a new variable called freqs. When you have done this, freqs should have 1024 elements. Draw the values in freqs to the screen using a for loop. Draw vertical lines for each element of the array. Using an ellipse output the low frequencies of the sound. Using the getEnergy method from fft pass in the argument “bass” and store in a variable called energy. Use the energy variable to set the width and height of the ellipse. Replicate the above step for other energy bands, such as “highMid”. Experiment with the sketch, try different tracks and see the effect. You can also attempt to create different animations from the ones Simon showed you. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue