# Getting ready for the next quiz
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min - Summary

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/tED9x/getting-ready-for-the-next-quiz

Here are the 25 sentences summarizing the text:

1. The next module activity requires a formative quiz with questions based on an external database.
2. The external database can be accessed by visiting Online SQL interpreter.
3. It is recommended to practice and explore the database before attempting the quiz.
4. The quiz will be based on the structure of the external database.
5. The format of this quiz differs from previous quizzes taken so far.
6. The questions in this quiz are related to querying the external database.
7. This quiz has unlimited attempts, providing ample opportunity for practice and learning.
8. The database should be given a few seconds to load completely before attempting any queries.
9. Once loaded, the interactive input box can be used to run different queries and view the output.
10. To get started with the quiz, try running the following initial queries:
11. SELECT sql FROM sqlite_master; (similar to 'SHOW tables', lists and describes all tables in the database)
12. Use this command to reset the database view after each query.
13. SELECT * FROM classroom; (selects all fields from the 'classroom' table)
14. SELECT name FROM student; (selects all fields from the 'student' table)
15. SELECT SUM(tot_cred) from student; (sums all 'tot_cred' fields from the 'student' table)
16. These queries can be used to familiarize oneself with the database structure and content.
17. Practicing and exploring the database before attempting the quiz is beneficial.
18. The link to Online SQL interpreter may break, so please notify the Student Portal if it does.
19. The formative quiz will cover various aspects of querying the external database.
20. No prior knowledge or experience with SQL queries is required for this quiz.
21. The format and content of the quiz will be determined by the structure of the external database.
22. There is no penalty for incorrect answers, making it an inclusive learning environment.
23. The quiz provides ample opportunity for practice and reinforcement of skills acquired so far.
24. By participating in this quiz, students can gauge their progress and identify areas for improvement.
25. If you encounter any issues with the quiz link, please reach out to the Student Portal for assistance.