# Getting ready for the next quiz
Reading•
. Duration: 15 minutes
15 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/tED9x/getting-ready-for-the-next-quiz

In the next module activity, you will have to take a formative quiz. However, there is a minor difference compared to the quizzes that you have been taking so far. The questions are related to an external database that you will have to query in order to answer them correctly. You can find the external database by visiting Online SQL interpreter . Make sure you give the database a few seconds to load completely. Once it has loaded, you can use the interactive input box to run different queries and view the output. The quiz will be based on this database structure and you will be asked to run different queries and answer the questions. It might be a good idea to practise and explore the database before attempting the quiz. Try the following queries to get started: SELECT sql FROM sqlite_master; (similar to ‘SHOW tables’, this will list and describe all the tables in this database. Use this command to reset your database view after each query). SELECT * FROM classroom; (this command will select all the fields from the ‘classroom’ table). SELECT name FROM student; (this command will select all the fields from the ‘student’ table). SELECT SUM(tot_cred) from student; (this command will sum all the ‘tot_cred’ fields from the ‘student’ table). This quiz is formative and you will have unlimited attempts. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Getting ready for the next quiz In the next module activity, you will have to take a formative quiz. However, there is a minor difference compared to the quizzes that you have been taking so far. The questions are related to an external database that you will have to query in order to answer them correctly. You can find the external database by visiting Online SQL interpreter . Make sure you give the database a few seconds to load completely. Once it has loaded, you can use the interactive input box to run different queries and view the output. The quiz will be based on this database structure and you will be asked to run different queries and answer the questions. It might be a good idea to practise and explore the database before attempting the quiz. Try the following queries to get started: SELECT sql FROM sqlite_master; (similar to ‘SHOW tables’, this will list and describe all the tables in this database. Use this command to reset your database view after each query). SELECT * FROM classroom; (this command will select all the fields from the ‘classroom’ table). SELECT name FROM student; (this command will select all the fields from the ‘student’ table). SELECT SUM(tot_cred) from student; (this command will sum all the ‘tot_cred’ fields from the ‘student’ table). This quiz is formative and you will have unlimited attempts. If this link is broken, please let us know via the Student Portal . Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue