# Further reading in this topic
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/ehdx6/further-reading-in-this-topic

SQL offers a lot more than what we have discussed in this module. When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about SQL, we recommend the following texts. We have already covered parts of these chapters in the Essential readings and the remainder of them will broaden your understanding of the topics. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. Both these books cover similar topics, so choose the one that you prefer. Hoffer, Venkataraman and Topi, Chapter 5, Introduction to SQL and Chapter 6, Advanced SQL . Elmasri and Navathe, Chapter 6, Basic SQL and Chapter 7, More SQL . In particular, in Elmasri and Navathe, read about the following SQL features and reflect on how you might use them in the applications that you have developed so far in this module: GROUP BY and HAVING clauses. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.1.8, Grouping: The GROUP BY and having clauses. WITH and CASE clauses. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.1.9, Other SQL constructs: WITH and CASE. Views. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.3, Views (virtual tables) in SQL. Schema change statements. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7. section 7.4., Schema change statements in SQL. Further reading in this topic SQL offers a lot more than what we have discussed in this module. When you have completed this topic, if you would like to read in more depth about SQL, we recommend the following texts. We have already covered parts of these chapters in the Essential readings and the remainder of them will broaden your understanding of the topics. Please note that because these are supplemental readings, we are unable to guarantee they are available in our Online Library. Both these books cover similar topics, so choose the one that you prefer. Hoffer, Venkataraman and Topi, Chapter 5, Introduction to SQL and Chapter 6, Advanced SQL . Elmasri and Navathe, Chapter 6, Basic SQL and Chapter 7, More SQL . In particular, in Elmasri and Navathe, read about the following SQL features and reflect on how you might use them in the applications that you have developed so far in this module: GROUP BY and HAVING clauses. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.1.8, Grouping: The GROUP BY and having clauses. WITH and CASE clauses. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.1.9, Other SQL constructs: WITH and CASE. Views. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7, section 7.3, Views (virtual tables) in SQL. Schema change statements. You can learn more about them in Chapter 7. section 7.4., Schema change statements in SQL. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue