# Enhance your interview performance
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/GEuTh/enhance-your-interview-performance

Take this opportunity to improve your interview performance and showcase answers using the skills you are developing in this module. Think about the type of job you might want to apply for (either now or in the future) and spend some time preparing for an interview for this job. You should identify five to six possible questions and write answers for each of them in your study journal. Your questions could directly ask about the skills you’ve learned in this module so far (e.g. technical writing or presentation skills), or they could be questions more related to a specific field which allow you to practise some of the communication techniques we’ve covered. To help you formulate your interview answers, spend some time exploring the University of London’s Careers Service resources on Careers Connect . As well as webinars and guidelines on good interview technique, we provide digital tools designed to provide effective interview rehearsal practice and performance improvement. You can browse lists of possible questions in our resources. As well as using our digital resources, you might find it helpful to practise interview questions with friends, peers or mentors. Practising in this way will help you to work on your delivery and confidence, as well as the content of your answers. However you do it, taking time for interview practice and evaluation will help you achieve your career ambitions. Enhance your interview performance Take this opportunity to improve your interview performance and showcase answers using the skills you are developing in this module. Think about the type of job you might want to apply for (either now or in the future) and spend some time preparing for an interview for this job. You should identify five to six possible questions and write answers for each of them in your study journal. Your questions could directly ask about the skills you’ve learned in this module so far (e.g. technical writing or presentation skills), or they could be questions more related to a specific field which allow you to practise some of the communication techniques we’ve covered. To help you formulate your interview answers, spend some time exploring the University of London’s Careers Service resources on Careers Connect . As well as webinars and guidelines on good interview technique, we provide digital tools designed to provide effective interview rehearsal practice and performance improvement. You can browse lists of possible questions in our resources. As well as using our digital resources, you might find it helpful to practise interview questions with friends, peers or mentors. Practising in this way will help you to work on your delivery and confidence, as well as the content of your answers. However you do it, taking time for interview practice and evaluation will help you achieve your career ambitions. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue