# Enhance your presentation and public speaking skills with our University of London Careers Service resources
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/1tm0Q/enhance-your-presentation-and-public-speaking-skills-with-our-university-of

Navigate through our resources on interview skills at Careers Connect to learn more about presentation skills from a career development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your presentation and interview skills? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on persuasion and negotiation. Use our digital tools which offer you an interactive interview rehearsal and practice space. Check out the ‘Thinking a Recruiter’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find lots of tips to improve your interview technique. Enhance your presentation and public speaking skills with our University of London Careers Service resources Navigate through our resources on interview skills at Careers Connect to learn more about presentation skills from a career development perspective. As you are navigating through these resources, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your presentation and interview skills? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service team. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on persuasion and negotiation. Use our digital tools which offer you an interactive interview rehearsal and practice space. Check out the ‘Thinking a Recruiter’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find lots of tips to improve your interview technique. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue