# Handling audience questions
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/Gno03/handling-audience-questions

Choose one of the presentations that you’ve prepared for this module so far. This could be your pitch for a mobile app, your elevator pitch or even a presentation you’ve recently had to do outside of this module. For this presentation, write down up to five potential questions that you could be asked at the end of this presentation. These questions should cover areas of clarification, deeper exploration or challenges to the ideas presented. Don’t be too easy on yourself – the point of practising is to increase your ability to handle difficult questions! Now, practise responding to these questions as though they were being asked by an audience member. Don’t spend too much time thinking about your answer, in order to mimic the conditions of a presentation. You can either record your answers in audio format or write down you answers if you prefer. See if you can follow the tips given in the previous video, such as: paraphrase the question to ensure clarity respond with a concise, well-thought-out answer if unsure, admit lack of knowledge and offer to follow up after the session acknowledge different perspectives if the question challenges their viewpoint focus on maintaining clarity and staying on message. After you’ve completed these responses, re-read them or listen to them back and reflect on how well you handled the questions. Reflect on if you’ve managed to follow the tips in the video, and what you need to work on in the future. This is good practice to learn and take forward with you for when you next have to prepare for a presentation. Handling audience questions Choose one of the presentations that you’ve prepared for this module so far. This could be your pitch for a mobile app, your elevator pitch or even a presentation you’ve recently had to do outside of this module. For this presentation, write down up to five potential questions that you could be asked at the end of this presentation. These questions should cover areas of clarification, deeper exploration or challenges to the ideas presented. Don’t be too easy on yourself – the point of practising is to increase your ability to handle difficult questions! Now, practise responding to these questions as though they were being asked by an audience member. Don’t spend too much time thinking about your answer, in order to mimic the conditions of a presentation. You can either record your answers in audio format or write down you answers if you prefer. See if you can follow the tips given in the previous video, such as: paraphrase the question to ensure clarity respond with a concise, well-thought-out answer if unsure, admit lack of knowledge and offer to follow up after the session acknowledge different perspectives if the question challenges their viewpoint focus on maintaining clarity and staying on message. After you’ve completed these responses, re-read them or listen to them back and reflect on how well you handled the questions. Reflect on if you’ve managed to follow the tips in the video, and what you need to work on in the future. This is good practice to learn and take forward with you for when you next have to prepare for a presentation. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue