# The surprising secret to speaking with confidence
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/a3tSD/the-surprising-secret-to-speaking-with-confidence

The resources on this page will help you to improve your presentation skills. Watch The surprising secret of speaking with confidence If you are unable to access the video please read the following: Mai C.L., R.D. Minehart and M.C. Pian-Smith 'Seven tips for giving an engaging and memorable presentation' BJA Education 19(9) 2019, pp.274–275. If any of these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Once you’ve watched the video, reflect on the following questions in your study journal: How do you typically feel when speaking in front of an audience, and how do you manage any feelings of nervousness or self-doubt? The speaker mentions the importance of inner confidence. What strategies could you use to build confidence from within, especially in challenging situations? Reflecting on the story of Demosthenes, how can consistent practice help you overcome difficulties or setbacks in your own public speaking or professional challenges? The speaker highlights the role of the diaphragm in managing anxiety. Have you ever considered how your physical state influences your emotional and mental state? How can you apply this awareness in your personal or professional life? In what ways can focusing on breathing and stillness enhance your presence in meetings, presentations or other situations where confidence is required? The surprising secret to speaking with confidence The resources on this page will help you to improve your presentation skills. Watch The surprising secret of speaking with confidence If you are unable to access the video please read the following: Mai C.L., R.D. Minehart and M.C. Pian-Smith 'Seven tips for giving an engaging and memorable presentation' BJA Education 19(9) 2019, pp.274–275. If any of these links are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Once you’ve watched the video, reflect on the following questions in your study journal: How do you typically feel when speaking in front of an audience, and how do you manage any feelings of nervousness or self-doubt? The speaker mentions the importance of inner confidence. What strategies could you use to build confidence from within, especially in challenging situations? Reflecting on the story of Demosthenes, how can consistent practice help you overcome difficulties or setbacks in your own public speaking or professional challenges? The speaker highlights the role of the diaphragm in managing anxiety. Have you ever considered how your physical state influences your emotional and mental state? How can you apply this awareness in your personal or professional life? In what ways can focusing on breathing and stillness enhance your presence in meetings, presentations or other situations where confidence is required? Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue