# Course syllabus
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/UxADw/course-syllabus

/ 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2040 Databases, Networks and the Web Course Description Many computer systems involve networks of computers interacting with each other to deliver coherent, integrated services such as banking, shopping and social media. A vital element of these services is how they represent, store and access data. This module provides practical and theoretical skills which will enable you to reason about networked systems and use them to create coherent services such as data - driven web applications. These skills build on the computing and web fundamentals taught earlier in the programme, and will allow you to work on more advanced data and web systems later in the programme. In this module, you will learn theory and practical skills focused on the modern web, internet and client - server applications. You will learn about relational database systems, mainly from a development perspective, emphasising issues related to data model ling and database implementation in SQL. You will learn how to model data in a database, retrieve data from the database and provide access to data through a dynamic web application. In particular, you will learn about the Relational Model, q uery processin g, and networking concepts to enable communication. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Explain the context behind the relational model and describe the process of schema development 2. Devise, explain and implement an appropriate representation of data in an SQL RDBMS 3 3. Explain and apply the basic concepts of computer networking, including, what is a network, what is it used for and how to characterize it 4. Explain the importance of dynamic web - based applications and their interaction with database servers 5. Perform queries on databases using multiple related tables 6. Develop web - based applications that run in a web - browser and interact with a database server Course syllabus / 7 100% Page 1 of 7 CM2040 Databases, Networks and the Web Course Description Many computer systems involve networks of computers interacting with each other to deliver coherent, integrated services such as banking, shopping and social media. A vital element of these services is how they represent, store and access data. This module provides practical and theoretical skills which will enable you to reason about networked systems and use them to create coherent services such as data - driven web applications. These skills build on the computing and web fundamentals taught earlier in the programme, and will allow you to work on more advanced data and web systems later in the programme. In this module, you will learn theory and practical skills focused on the modern web, internet and client - server applications. You will learn about relational database systems, mainly from a development perspective, emphasising issues related to data model ling and database implementation in SQL. You will learn how to model data in a database, retrieve data from the database and provide access to data through a dynamic web application. In particular, you will learn about the Relational Model, q uery processin g, and networking concepts to enable communication. Course Goals and Objectives Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to: 1. Explain the context behind the relational model and describe the process of schema development 2. Devise, explain and implement an appropriate representation of data in an SQL RDBMS 3 3. Explain and apply the basic concepts of computer networking, including, what is a network, what is it used for and how to characterize it 4. Explain the importance of dynamic web - based applications and their interaction with database servers 5. Perform queries on databases using multiple related tables 6. Develop web - based applications that run in a web - browser and interact with a database server Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue