# The programming assignment
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-databases-networks-and-the-web/supplement/OfL5M/the-programming-assignment

A major part of your assessment for this module will be a programming assignment. Applying the practical skills of designing and building working applications is the best way to consolidate your understanding of the concepts in this module and to gain the hand-on skills required in many jobs in the industry. The programming assignment will ask you to build a working web application using the following technology stack: Node.js Express EJS SQLite. The module instructions and labs will use the first three technologies. For the database, please use SQLite instead of MySQL. Using SQLite makes it much easier for you to submit an application that we can download, install and assess. SQLite is very similar to MySQL and the programming assignment instructions will provide you with guidance on how to use it. We will provide you with a basic template application to use for the basis of your work. We will also provide you with written instructions detailing the business requirements of the application that you must develop. You can expect the requirements to include a number of web pages and forms that will allow a user to enter and view data stored on the SQLite database. We will award marks for: your ability to successfully implement the required functionality the quality of your application from a user perspective the quality of your code the quality of your architecture and design your documentation the ambition of your work. The programming assignment should take you around 20 hours to complete. The best way for you to prepare for the assignment is to complete all the labs and challenge yourself to explore beyond the labs with your own ideas. We will make the mid-term instructions available to you a few weeks into the session. The programming assignment A major part of your assessment for this module will be a programming assignment. Applying the practical skills of designing and building working applications is the best way to consolidate your understanding of the concepts in this module and to gain the hand-on skills required in many jobs in the industry. The programming assignment will ask you to build a working web application using the following technology stack: Node.js Express EJS SQLite. The module instructions and labs will use the first three technologies. For the database, please use SQLite instead of MySQL. Using SQLite makes it much easier for you to submit an application that we can download, install and assess. SQLite is very similar to MySQL and the programming assignment instructions will provide you with guidance on how to use it. We will provide you with a basic template application to use for the basis of your work. We will also provide you with written instructions detailing the business requirements of the application that you must develop. You can expect the requirements to include a number of web pages and forms that will allow a user to enter and view data stored on the SQLite database. We will award marks for: your ability to successfully implement the required functionality the quality of your application from a user perspective the quality of your code the quality of your architecture and design your documentation the ambition of your work. The programming assignment should take you around 20 hours to complete. The best way for you to prepare for the assignment is to complete all the labs and challenge yourself to explore beyond the labs with your own ideas. We will make the mid-term instructions available to you a few weeks into the session. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue