# Enhance your communication skills with our University of London Careers Service resources
Reading•
. Duration: 10 minutes
10 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/BpY5p/enhance-your-communication-skills-with-our-university-of-london-careers-service

Navigate through the hotspots below to learn more about communication from a Career Development perspective. As you’re navigating through this, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your communication skills? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on communication and check out the ‘Finding & Applying for Jobs’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find lots of tips to improve your CVs and written application technique Browse our CV review section for our current digital CV enhancing tools (such as Career Set) to discover how AI can help you target and enhance your CV, and where you still need to add a personal touch. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Enhance your communication skills with our University of London Careers Service resources Navigate through the hotspots below to learn more about communication from a Career Development perspective. As you’re navigating through this, make some notes in your study journal on the topics covered. What have you learned? What do you think you need to focus on in your independent study to improve your communication skills? To help you with your independent study, consider using the content available to you from the University of London Careers Service. All these resources can be accessed through our University of London Careers Connect platform. Explore the Global Employability Skills Micro-Module, focusing on the sections on communication and check out the ‘Finding & Applying for Jobs’ section in our webinar recording library where you will find lots of tips to improve your CVs and written application technique Browse our CV review section for our current digital CV enhancing tools (such as Career Set) to discover how AI can help you target and enhance your CV, and where you still need to add a personal touch. If any of the links on this page are broken, please let us know via the Student Portal. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue