# Pitch perfect – Prepare a pitch for a mobile app
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2045-professional-practice-for-computer-scientists/supplement/XrOl9/pitch-perfect-prepare-a-pitch-for-a-mobile-app

We have done a lot of work so far in taking a complex idea and turning it into something more accessible. In this activity you will be presented with a real-world scenario where you need to concisely and persuasively present a mobile app to a potential audience – building on skills you have already acquired. You will practise distilling key information and deliver a compelling pitch that captures attention and highlights the app's value proposition – these are both important skills in professional software environments. Task: Choose your app: Select a mobile app that you would like to develop or one that you are familiar with. This could be a personal project, a hypothetical app or an existing app on the market. Perhaps you could consider turning one of your module projects from ITP/Web Dev into an app. Or you could even come up with a new idea entirely based on some of the modules you are studying now or soon e.g. the things you build in OOP. Create your pitch: Prepare a 2-minute pitch that covers the following aspects. As a rough guide, people usually speak at around 150 words a minute. Problem: What is the purpose of your app? What problem does your app solve? Solution: How does your app address this problem? Key features: What are the app's most important features and benefits? Does it have any unique selling points? Target audience: Who is your ideal user? Design and technology: Briefly mention the design approach (e.g. material design) a software design pattern such as MVC or the tech stack used (e.g. MERN). Call to action: What do you want the audience to do after hearing your pitch? (e.g. download the app, visit your website, invest in your idea) Use visual aids: Consider using a few slides or visual aids to enhance your pitch. Practice and refine: Rehearse your pitch to ensure it flows smoothly and fits within the 2-minute timeframe. Pay attention to your delivery, including your tone of voice, body language and enthusiasm. You might find it helpful to record your pitch so you can assess your delivery. Once you’ve created your mobile app pitch, move on to the next lecture which will help you to reflect on your work. Pitch perfect – Prepare a pitch for a mobile app We have done a lot of work so far in taking a complex idea and turning it into something more accessible. In this activity you will be presented with a real-world scenario where you need to concisely and persuasively present a mobile app to a potential audience – building on skills you have already acquired. You will practise distilling key information and deliver a compelling pitch that captures attention and highlights the app's value proposition – these are both important skills in professional software environments. Task: Choose your app: Select a mobile app that you would like to develop or one that you are familiar with. This could be a personal project, a hypothetical app or an existing app on the market. Perhaps you could consider turning one of your module projects from ITP/Web Dev into an app. Or you could even come up with a new idea entirely based on some of the modules you are studying now or soon e.g. the things you build in OOP. Create your pitch: Prepare a 2-minute pitch that covers the following aspects. As a rough guide, people usually speak at around 150 words a minute. Problem: What is the purpose of your app? What problem does your app solve? Solution: How does your app address this problem? Key features: What are the app's most important features and benefits? Does it have any unique selling points? Target audience: Who is your ideal user? Design and technology: Briefly mention the design approach (e.g. material design) a software design pattern such as MVC or the tech stack used (e.g. MERN). Call to action: What do you want the audience to do after hearing your pitch? (e.g. download the app, visit your website, invest in your idea) Use visual aids: Consider using a few slides or visual aids to enhance your pitch. Practice and refine: Rehearse your pitch to ensure it flows smoothly and fits within the 2-minute timeframe. Pay attention to your delivery, including your tone of voice, body language and enthusiasm. You might find it helpful to record your pitch so you can assess your delivery. Once you’ve created your mobile app pitch, move on to the next lecture which will help you to reflect on your work. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue