# Hack it: Slit scanning
Reading•
. Duration: 1 hour
1h

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-graphics-programming/supplement/6hXkH/hack-it-slit-scanning

slitScanner-Template In this assignment we are going to be making our own slit-scanner like in the image above. Slit scanning is an old photographic technique that is still in use today. For an extensive list of slit scanning projects and a bit of history, have a look here . Steps to complete Start with the template attached. Where it says “step 1” in the template use the get() command to extract a strip of pixels from the incoming video. See documentation of get() here . Where it says “step 2” in the template, translate to the appropriate place in the canvas and use the image() command to display what you extracted with get(). Paste the strips extracted with get() next to each other, until the end of the canvas is reached. When that happens start from the beginning again. As a bonus, use modulo (%) instead of an if statement to reset the position of the slit scanner once the end of the camera is reached. Hack it: Slit scanning slitScanner-Template In this assignment we are going to be making our own slit-scanner like in the image above. Slit scanning is an old photographic technique that is still in use today. For an extensive list of slit scanning projects and a bit of history, have a look here . Steps to complete Start with the template attached. Where it says “step 1” in the template use the get() command to extract a strip of pixels from the incoming video. See documentation of get() here . Where it says “step 2” in the template, translate to the appropriate place in the canvas and use the image() command to display what you extracted with get(). Paste the strips extracted with get() next to each other, until the end of the canvas is reached. When that happens start from the beginning again. As a bonus, use modulo (%) instead of an if statement to reset the position of the slit scanner once the end of the camera is reached. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue