# Topic 3 evaluation and summary
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-introduction-to-programming-2/supplement/wYBEO/topic-3-evaluation-and-summary

In this third topic of the module, you have been introduced to the second case study application, the music visualiser. You have also looked at the p5.js sound library and have explored how sound is produced and manipulated by a digital computer. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have learnt the basics of storing and playing sound and have explored its implementation in p5.js’s sound library. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the music visualiser application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the second ‘interview with the student’ video and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Topic 3 evaluation and summary In this third topic of the module, you have been introduced to the second case study application, the music visualiser. You have also looked at the p5.js sound library and have explored how sound is produced and manipulated by a digital computer. Before you move on to the next topic, take a moment to review the following checklist and test your knowledge and experience with the topics we have discussed. You have learnt the basics of storing and playing sound and have explored its implementation in p5.js’s sound library. You can follow the diagram of the structure of the music visualiser application from the ‘under the hood’ videos. You have completed the case study and can describe how you have made those changes. You have critically reviewed the second ‘interview with the student’ video and have considered the importance of planning and brainstorming for your application. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue