# Topic 5 evaluation
Reading•
. Duration: 30 minutes
30 min

URL: https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-cm2025-computer-security/supplement/qtKpo/topic-5-evaluation

Well done on your progress so far! As you continue through the module, it’s important to take time to assess how well you’re meeting the topic learning objectives. This activity will help you reflect, spot areas for growth and plan your next steps for improvement. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Here are some example reflective questions. How confident am I in explaining the role of cryptography in securing information systems? Am I comfortable distinguishing between symmetric and asymmetric encryption, and explaining when each is most appropriate? To what extent do I feel prepared to use tools such as OpenSSL or browser certificate inspection to apply cryptographic techniques in practice? How capable do I feel in evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of different cryptographic approaches, including their vulnerabilities to attacks? Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. The best of luck with the rest of the module. Topic 5 evaluation Well done on your progress so far! As you continue through the module, it’s important to take time to assess how well you’re meeting the topic learning objectives. This activity will help you reflect, spot areas for growth and plan your next steps for improvement. Please take a moment to reflect on the skills and knowledge you have acquired. Here are some example reflective questions. How confident am I in explaining the role of cryptography in securing information systems? Am I comfortable distinguishing between symmetric and asymmetric encryption, and explaining when each is most appropriate? To what extent do I feel prepared to use tools such as OpenSSL or browser certificate inspection to apply cryptographic techniques in practice? How capable do I feel in evaluating the strengths and weaknesses of different cryptographic approaches, including their vulnerabilities to attacks? Evaluating your learning should help you to identify areas you need to focus on as you progress through the module. It’s also an important skill that will contribute to your success in any academic or professional endeavour. Once you’ve reflected on your learning, develop a concrete action plan to help you improve your understanding. This could include: scheduling additional study sessions to practise the concepts you are less sure about seeking out additional resources to reinforce your understanding of these concepts posting on the discussion forum to ask for further clarification from your peers setting specific, measurable goals for improvement. We’ll include an evaluation activity at the end of each topic for you to regularly review your progress. You should adjust your strategies and goals based on your ongoing self-assessment and any new feedback you receive. Remember that learning is a continuous process and it’s okay to revise your plan to better suit your needs. The best of luck with the rest of the module. Mark as completed Dislike Report an issue